                                            Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction
                                                     from 2D Image Collections

                                                   Jakub Zadrozny, Oisin Mac Aodha          , and Hakan Bilen

                                                                     University of Edinburgh
                                                                 jakubzadrozny.github.io/bat3r
arXiv:2607.03891v1 [cs.CV] 4 Jul 2026




                                              Abstract. 3D reconstruction of articulated objects from a single im-
                                              age is challenging because large training datasets with paired image and
                                              3D supervision are difficult to obtain. Recent point map–based methods
                                              achieve strong performance but rely on synthetic datasets rendered from
                                              manually created articulated 3D assets with carefully curated pose dis-
                                              tributions. While camera viewpoints can be easily sampled, generating
                                              realistic object articulations remains costly and labor-intensive. We pro-
                                              pose a training framework that reduces this requirement by leveraging
                                              unannotated 2D images collections with only a single rigged canonical
                                              mesh per category. Starting from a weak 3D shape predictor trained on
                                              canonical-pose renders, we iteratively estimate object articulation and
                                              camera pose by fitting the mesh to predicted point maps. The recov-
                                              ered articulations and viewpoints are then used to render updated syn-
                                              thetic training data, progressively improving the predictor. Despite us-
                                              ing substantially weaker 3D supervision, our models achieve performance
                                              comparable with DualPM, which requires manually curated articulated
                                              training datasets.

                                              Keywords: 3D Reconstruction · Weak Supervision · Articulation


                                        1   Introduction

                                        Estimating the 3D shape of an object from a single image is an inherently ill-
                                        posed task in computer vision, as multiple 3D structures can correspond to
                                        the same 2D observation. The challenge becomes even more pronounced in the
                                        presence of occlusions, whether self-occlusions or those caused by other objects
                                        in the scene, which leave only partial information about the object’s geometry.
                                        Addressing this problem therefore requires reasoning about the complete 3D
                                        structure from limited visual evidence. This ability to infer and understand such
                                        complex 3D shapes is fundamental for next-generation embodied systems that
                                        must perceive, reason about, and interact with objects in the physical world.
                                            Previous works addressing this problem typically rely on incorporating pri-
                                        ors to constrain the otherwise ambiguous 3D reconstruction space, ensuring that
                                        predicted shapes are both plausible and consistent with the input image. Such
                                        priors have been introduced in several ways: through morphable 3D shape tem-
                                        plates [25, 52], learned from 2D image collections [1, 21, 40] or by encoding shape
2            J. Zadrozny et al.

    Manually Created Meshes (DualPM)   Training Data Rendering


                                 …
                                                     …
       Multiple Articulated Meshes

     Automatic Generation (Ours)

                                            🔥
                                                2D→3D
                                                  Net
                             Mesh
    Single Mesh 2D Images    Fitting                             Input Image   DualPM   Ours

Fig. 1: While effective, supervised approaches for 3D shape estimation from 2D im-
ages rely on the availability of large manually crafted and curated 3D shape datasets
depicting objects of interest in a wide variety of poses (top left). We introduce a new
approach that only requires a single mesh per category and an image collection as input
(bottom left). From this, we are able to automatically generate paired training data,
i.e., 2D images and corresponding 3D point clouds, that can be used to train supervised
reconstruction methods. Our 3D prediction results are comparable to methods that are
trained on richer manually created 3D articulated data, e.g., DualPM [13] (right).



knowledge into neural networks with supervised 3D data [13, 42]. Among these
approaches, supervised models trained on paired input images and corresponding
3D data (e.g., meshes) have demonstrated particularly strong performance [5].
    However, like most supervised approaches, the success of these methods is
heavily reliant on the quality and diversity of available training data. While
recent efforts have expanded the availability of synthetic 3D assets through
large-scale dataset curation [6, 7, 20], these collections still suffer from limita-
tions in realism and diversity. Moreover, the manual curation required to build
larger, high-quality datasets is prohibitively expensive. This issue is especially
pronounced for object-centric 3D reconstruction of deformable and articulated
objects (e.g., animals), which require substantial amounts of diverse 3D data
for effective supervised training. Outside of human-centric domains [2, 3, 36, 44],
there remains a scarcity of 3D datasets for other complex articulated objects.
    While obtaining large-scale articulated 3D data for a specific object category
is challenging, as discussed above, single meshes depicting the category in a
rest (i.e., canonical or neutral) pose are often readily available. Motivated by
this observation, we ask whether it is possible to train a model to estimate the
3D shape of an object from a single image given only a single 3D model of
that category and a set of 2D images at training time? In doing so, we would
significantly decrease the amount of manual curation required to generate such
datasets and provide a scalable pathway to training models for categories that
have limited 3D data available.
    At first glance, this appears infeasible as a single mesh cannot capture the
wide range of pose and shape variation observed in real-world images. Neverthe-
less, we observe that training from rendered images obtained from a single 3D
mesh can provide a strong initialization for basic shape and camera viewpoint
estimation (see Fig. 1 for an overview). Building on this insight, we propose an
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections          3

iterative data generation procedure that progressively augments the training set
with predicted paired 2D and 3D training instances that exhibit progressively
more complex poses. In doing so, we demonstrate that it is possible to train
the recent state-of-the-art DualPM [13] 3D shape estimation method on signif-
icantly weaker 3D data yet still obtain comparable performance on challenging
quadruped animal categories.
    We make the following contributions: (i) We propose a new approach, Boot-
strapping ArTiculated 3D Reconstruction (BAT3R), for automatically generat-
ing paired 2D and 3D training data that can be used to train category-centric 2D
to 3D shape prediction models while foregoing the need for expensive manually
created 3D articulated training data. (ii) Despite being trained on significantly
weaker 3D data, we demonstrate that our approach results in strong reconstruc-
tion performance. Furthermore, we show that the iterative application of our
method improves performance, closing the gap between our approach and fully
supervised baselines.


2   Related work
There is a large body of work in computer vision that attempts to reconstruct a
3D representation of a scene given a set of images depicting the scene, e.g., [14,26,
28,34,38]. In this work, our focus is on a different type of 3D reconstruction task,
that of reconstructing deformable objects from unstructured image collections.

Unsupervised reconstruction. There is a family of unsupervised methods
that have been proposed that can estimate the 3D shape of a rigid object cate-
gory given a collection of images [9, 12, 19, 27, 37]. Unlike conventional structure
from motion methods that assume the provided images are from different view-
points of same object instance or scene at similar points in time, these methods
instead take an unstructured set of images as input, i.e., a set of images de-
picting the same object category, but not necessarily the same exact instance.
The methods are unsupervised in the sense that no ground-truth 3D supervi-
sion is available, but they instead make use of auxiliary 2D supervision such
as foreground segmentation masks, semantic part segmentation masks, object
keypoints, camera poses, etc. Successive methods have managed to remove some
of the supervision signal required either partially (e.g., by removing the need for
keypoint annotations [9]) or completely [27]. Due the rigid object assumptions
made by these methods, they cannot estimate plausible 3D shapes for articu-
lated/deformable objects.
    Techniques have been proposed to address the more challenging non-rigid
case whereby objects may deform or articulate. Given a collection of images
and a skeleton, LASSIE [45] introduced a test-time optimization approach to
reconstruct articulated categories. Later this was extended such that the skeleton
could also be estimated from the images [46]. An alternative approach is to
train a neural network to directly predict the articulated 3D shape. Skeleton-
based priors have also been demonstrated to be effective in this setting as in
4      J. Zadrozny et al.

MagicPony [40] or 3D-Fauna [21], but other priors such as motion cues obtained
from video sequences, as used in DOVE [39], are also effective. SAOR [1] does
not require any 3D or video supervision, instead relying on the assumption that
objects can be decomposed into a set of articulated parts which are learned
during training. While impressive, the results of these unsupervised methods are
still inferior to techniques that are trained with full 3D supervision.

Supervised reconstruction. The above unsupervised methods broadly do not
make use of any detailed 3D shape information during training. However, when
available, this can impose a strong regularization signal ensuring that model
predictions stay on the manifold of plausible 3D shapes. One approach is to
align multiple 3D meshes of different instances of the same object category into
a common model which captures the shape variation within the category. This
has been shown to be highly effective for humans [25], quadrupeds [52] more
generally, and specific species such as dogs [32, 33] and horses [53]. However, the
3D alignment step is non-trivial and limits this approach to settings where a large
number of 3D meshes containing instances of the same topology are available.
    When large quantities of paired image and 3D data are available, it is possi-
ble to directly apply supervised learning techniques to learn the mapping from
images to 3D, e.g., [51]. Additionally, priors learned from deep generative (e.g.,
diffusion-based) models have also been shown to be effective at assisting with
3D extraction [23, 24, 42]. These supervised approaches require training data,
but advances in rendering and the availability of large 3D asset collections have
enabled the creation of paired datasets in the case of a limited number of de-
formable categories such as animals, e.g., [10, 29, 43]. However, the generation of
such datasets relies on the availability of 3D assets in diverse poses.
    Inspired by point-based representations developed in the context of 3D re-
construction networks [38] and canonical surface mapping [17, 18], DualPM [13]
introduced a supervised approach for viewpoint invariant point map prediction
for deformable object categories. It leverages large synthetically rendered im-
ages and 3D point clouds to train a supervised model that can predict both
the 3D position of visible and occluded parts of the object via a multi-layered
output representation. DualPM produces state-of-the-art reconstruction results
for quadrupeds. However, like the supervised methods previously discussed, it
requires 3D training data depicting objects in diverse poses. In this work, we
propose a new approach for automatic dataset generation that overcomes this
requirement for diverse data. Specifically, we show that it is possible to generate
rich training data via an iterative procedure that only requires a single rigged
canonically posed mesh as input.


3   Method
Given a collection of RGB images {In }N n=1 depicting different instances of an
articulated object category (e.g., horses), our goal is to train a single-image
predictor Φ that reconstructs the object’s 3D geometry. At training time, we
      Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections                                                                                      5

assume we have access to a single canonical mesh M c representing the object
in its rest pose. We also assume that M c is animation-ready, i.e., rigged and
skinned with an articulation skeleton. Such meshes can be created manually or
obtained using recent automatic rigging methods [35,48]. Importantly, we do not
require additional instances of this mesh in different articulated poses.
    For the image collection, we assume foreground segmentation masks are avail-
able, which can be obtained using off-the-shelf segmentation methods [16, 31].
The images require neither camera pose annotations nor 3D supervision. We also
do not assume prior knowledge of the distribution of valid object articulations,
and only require a coarse prior over camera viewpoints. Both object articula-
tions and camera poses are estimated automatically during training. We use the
DualPM point-map representation [13] for the single-image predictor, which we
summarize next.


3.1     Preliminaries: Dual Point Maps (DualPM)

Our main contribution is a framework for automatically generating paired 2D–3D
training data for articulated image-to-3D reconstruction. For the reconstruction
model, we build on DualPM [13], which predicts two coupled, layered 3D point
maps from a single image.
    Given an input image I, for each foreground pixel u, the network predicts K
intersection points between a ray passing through pixel u and the object surface
(capturing both visible and occluded parts). Each intersection point at layer k
is represented by a posed point Pk (u) ∈ R3 and a canonical point Qk (u) ∈ R3 .
The posed point is expressed in the camera coordinate frame, while the canon-
ical point is expressed in the object’s rest-pose coordinate system. Together,
(Pk (u), Qk (u)) describe the same physical surface location in two coordinate
frames. The posed map therefore provides a 3D reconstruction of the object in
the camera coordinate frame, while the canonical map establishes dense corre-
spondences mapping canonical points to posed points. This explicit canonical-
to-posed mapping is the core mechanism driving our mesh fitting stage.
    DualPM [13] is a fully supervised approach and it is trained using synthet-
ically rendered images depicting articulated meshes where ground-truth posed
and canonical coordinates are available for each surface point (both visible and
occluded). We let P̂k (u) and Q̂k (u) denote the predicted posed and canonical
points, respectively, and F denote the set of masked object (foreground) pixels.
The posed point map is trained using the confidence-weighted regression loss:

            \mathcal {L}_P = \frac {1}{K|F|} \sum _{u \in F} \sum _{1 \leq k \leq K} c_{P_k}(u)\, \| \hat {P}_k(u) - P_k(u) \|_2^2 - \alpha \log c_{P_k}(u),    (1)


where Pk (u) and Qk (u) denote the ground truth posed and canonical points,
cPk (u) denotes a predicted confidence for the posed point estimate. The total
training objective is LDualP M = LP + LQ , where an analogous loss to LP is used
for LQ .
6             J. Zadrozny et al.

Repeat For Different Views                                             Repeat For Each Image




                                             2D Images
                                  Train
                             🔥                                               2D→3D
                                 2D→3D                                         Net
                                   Net
      Canonical Mesh                                                                                  Point Cloud        Mesh Fitting
                                                              …
    Render
                                                                                                                Render
                                                         🔥
                                                             2D→3D
                                 Canonical                                   Articulated
                                                               Net            Dataset
                                  Dataset
     Paired 2D + 3D                                                                              Paired 2D + 3D          Fitted Mesh
                                                             Retrain
                 Initial Phase                                                      Iterative Phase


Fig. 2: Overview of our bootstrapping approach BAT3R. Left: We render the canonical
rigged mesh from sampled camera viewpoints to create an initial paired 2D–3D training
set, which is used to train the initial 2D to 3D predictor Φ0 . Right: Given an image
collection, the current predictor Φi predicts posed and canonical point maps. We fit the
canonical mesh to these predictions, recover an articulated mesh and camera viewpoint,
and render the result to obtain new synthetic training pairs with exact point-map
supervision. The predictor is then retrained on this generated dataset, yielding Φi+1 .
The process is repeated for multiple iterations.



3.2          BAT3R: Bootstrapping ArTiculated 3D Reconstruction

The original DualPM framework requires a training collection of 2D images
depicting the object of interest in various articulated poses, paired with corre-
sponding ground-truth layered 3D point maps with canonical correspondences.
In practice, this paired data is generated synthetically via layered rasteriza-
tion of articulated 3D meshes. However, acquiring such high-quality datasets
is highly non-trivial as creating realistic articulation data for rigged meshes is
a challenging, time-consuming, and expensive process that typically demands
the expertise of professional 3D artists. Furthermore, achieving comprehensive
coverage of natural articulations is critical, as the predictive performance and
generalization capabilities of the learned model are inherently limited by the
pose and articulation diversity present within the training data. We propose an
alternative solution that requires significantly less 3D supervision. Our method
alternates between two steps: fitting the canonical mesh to predictions on the
2D image collection, and using the fitted meshes to render new paired 2D–3D
training data.
    We assume we have access to an initial, potentially weak, 3D predictor Φi ,
which can be initialized by training the predictor on image and 3D data rendered
from a single canonical mesh (i.e., depicting a single pose). The high-level idea
behind our approach is that we can use the initial predictor to generate plau-
sible predictions for the supplied image collection and then make use of mesh
alignment methods to fit the canonical mesh to the predicted point clouds to
obtain realistic object poses that can be used to generate improved ground-truth
3D training data. Below we detail a single iteration of our proposed refinement
procedure, designed to yield an improved predictor, Φi+1 . An illustration of our
method, BAT3R, is depicted in Fig. 2.
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections              7

    We first employ the current model Φi to infer the dual point clouds (derived
from the dual point maps), i.e., the posed point cloud P and the corresponding
canonical point cloud Q, for each image I in the training collection. Subsequently,
we optimize for the best articulation of the provided canonical 3D mesh to the
predicted posed point cloud for each instance. This fitting process is facilitated
by the semantic correspondences provided by the dual point cloud representation
(see Sec. 3.1). Although the geometric fidelity of the predicted point clouds may
be imperfect (particularly during early stages of the refinement), their primary
function is merely to guide the mesh articulation toward the target pose depicted
in the input image. A key observation motivating our approach is that exact
ground-truth 3D annotations for the input images are not required to iteratively
improve the predictor. Instead, we rely on articulating the canonical mesh to fit
the imperfect predictions, which inherently provides a fully accurate and self-
consistent 3D structure for supervision. Furthermore, as a natural by-product of
our mesh alignment process, we also recover the camera poses corresponding to
the input images. Finally, these articulated meshes and estimated camera poses
are utilized to render a novel, self-annotated training set, which serves as the
supervisory signal to train the subsequent model iteration, Φi+1 .


Initialization. In the most general case, we begin the process assuming no
knowledge about the distribution of plausible 3D articulations and simply train
a naïve initial model to serve as Φ0 , i.e., Φi for the first iteration where i = 0. To
this end, we automatically create a dataset of 2D renders of the canonical mesh
M c (i.e., a 3D mesh of the object in a rest pose) from many randomly sampled
camera viewpoints. The distribution used to sample camera viewpoints should
in general resemble the distribution that is expected to be encountered at test
time. To complete the rendering pipeline we require an object texture, which
can be hand-crafted or AI-generated, and a environment map which we sample
from a collection of publicly available assets. This dataset of images of the object
in the canonical pose from various viewpoints, with known 3D per-image shape,
serves as our initial paired training data.


Inference and mesh fitting. Our mesh fitting algorithm employs a gradient-
based optimization loop to articulate and align the canonical 3D mesh to the
predicted dual point clouds. The dual point map representation lends itself par-
ticularly well to this purpose by establishing explicit dense correspondences be-
tween the posed and the canonical states. Specifically, let V c = {vjc } denote
the vertices of the canonical mesh M c , and let P = {pi } and Q = {qi } rep-
resent the predicted (using Φi ) posed and canonical point clouds for a specific
image I, respectively. First, each point indexed by i in the dual point map is
assigned to the mesh vertex that minimizes the distances in the canonical space,
i.e., j ∗ (i) = arg minj ∥qi − vjc ∥2 . Intuitively, during the fitting process, the cor-
responding predicted posed point pi acts as a target attractor pulling on the
articulated mesh vertex.
8       J. Zadrozny et al.

     Furthermore, when fitting the mesh to point clouds predicted from in-the-
wild images, the template mesh M c will inherently exhibit anatomical discrep-
ancies compared to the observed instance. To prevent the optimization from
overfitting to these instance-specific structural variations, we subsample the pre-
dicted dual point clouds to a sparse set of 200 control points. To ensure these
control points are sampled uniformly along the surface of the object, we em-
ploy a topology-aware farthest point sampling strategy. We define a surface-
grounded distance metric D(qn , qm ) between any two predicted canonical points
qn , qm ∈ Q. Let j ∗ (n) denote the index of the mesh vertex assigned to qn , and
let dgeo (·, ·) represent the geodesic distance along the canonical mesh surface.
We formulate the distance as the path length bridging the two points via the
mesh surface:

        D(q_n, q_m) = \|q_n - v^c_{j^*(n)}\|_2 + d_{geo}\left (v^c_{j^*(n)}, v^c_{j^*(m)}\right ) + \|v^c_{j^*(m)} - q_m\|_2                                        (2)

For ease of notation, in all subsequent sections, we assume P and Q refer directly
to these subsampled control point clouds.
    The optimization process begins by determining an optimal global rigid trans-
formation T g (comprising scaling, rotation, and translation) using the Kabsch
algorithm [11], to align the canonical mesh (defined in the rest-pose coordinate
frame) with the predicted posed point cloud P (residing in the camera space).
Following this global alignment, we optimize the articulation parameters θ, de-
fined as the excess joint rotations relative to the rest pose, alongside per-bone
(scalar) scale parameters S to account for instance-specific anatomical propor-
tions (e.g., variations in limb length). The state of the posed mesh is thus a
function of the articulation, bone scales, and global rigid transform, yielding the
posed vertices V P (θ, S, T g ) = {vjp (θ, S, T g )}.
    To guide this process, we define a loss function consisting of a data term
and geometric regularization constraints. The data term, Ldata , measures the
discrepancy between each predicted posed point pi and its assigned articulated
mesh vertex vjp∗ (i) :

                              \mathcal {L}_{data} = \sum _{p_i \in P} \mathcal {H}_\delta \left ( \lVert p_i - v^p_{j^*(i)}(\theta , S, T^g) \rVert _2 \right ).    (3)


To mitigate the influence of outliers and to accommodate natural deviations
between the predicted point cloud and the specific instance’s true shape, we
employ a robust Huber loss Hδ with δ = 0.1 for this distance.
     Our objective is not only to overfit the point cloud, but rather to find a close,
reasonable alignment while preserving the intrinsic structural properties of the
fitted mesh, which ensures the 3D predictor Φ learns a geometrically correct
prior. To this end, we incorporate a set of regularization losses to address over-
fitting. First, inspired by physical energy minimization principles, we penalize the
mean squared magnitude of the excess joint rotations (∥θ∥22 ), which encourages
smooth and gradual curvatures. Second, we introduce penalties against devia-
tions in (local) volume Lvol and edge lengths Ledge , between the canonical and
        Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections                                                                                                                                                                              9

articulated states, thereby preventing unrealistic stretching, shearing, or com-
pression. Third, to ensure anatomical consistency, we regularize the bone scales
via Lscale , which enforces left-right symmetry and penalizes extreme deviations
from the canonical proportions. Finally, when presented with challenging artic-
ulations, the 3D predictor tends to output noisy point clouds, especially early
in the refinement process, which in turn results in self-intersections of the fitted
meshes. To mitigate this effect, we apply a self-repulsion loss term, Lrep , which
explicitly penalizes configurations where vertices separated by a large geodesic
distance on the mesh surface collapse to a small Euclidean distance in the artic-
ulated state, effectively preventing self-intersections. Crucially, to prevent these
structural penalties from opposing the valid anatomical size variations captured
by S, the geometric losses (Lvol , Ledge , Lrep ) are computed on the unscaled ar-
ticulated mesh. We provide more details in the supplementary material.
    The complete objective function is formulated as:

   \label {eq:loss} \mathcal {L} = \mathcal {L}_{data} + \lambda _{angle} \lVert \theta \rVert _2^2 + \lambda _{vol} \mathcal {L}_{vol} + \lambda _{edge} \mathcal {L}_{edge} + \lambda _{scale} \mathcal {L}_{scale} + \lambda _{rep} \mathcal {L}_{rep}.  (4)

The total loss L is jointly minimized using gradient descent with respect to the
excess joint rotations θ, bone scales S, and the global rigid transform T g , as
articulating the mesh necessitates corrections to the global alignment. Impor-
tantly, the bone scales S act solely as auxiliary variables to absorb instance-
specific anatomical variations for a more accurate data fit. Upon convergence,
S is discarded, and we extract the unscaled articulated mesh to serve as the
geometrically consistent 3D training target for the next iteration. Note that our
regularization terms, apart from the angular penalty, which we assign a low
weight λangle , do not hinder intricate yet natural deformations, as physically
plausible articulations generally do not necessitate excessive stretching, com-
pression, volume fluctuations, or self-intersections.
    We empirically observe that our approach proves more effective at extracting
accurate poses from lateral views compared to frontal and rear perspectives.
To address this imbalance and boost performance on the challenging views, we
employ a viewpoint augmentation strategy. Specifically, to form the training set
for the next iteration, we render the fitted meshes from multiple different novel
viewpoints (see supplement for details).


4          Experiments
4.1            Experimental setup
Datasets. For our synthetic data evaluation, we strictly follow the training splits
provided by DualPM [13] for the horse, cow, and sheep categories. Crucially,
we do not access the ground-truth articulations and camera poses. Instead, we
recover the articulations and camera poses using our refinement procedure. For
our real-world evaluation, we collect purely 2D in-the-wild images. For horses, we
utilize ∼11, 000 real images from the MagicPony [40] dataset. For chimpanzees,
we assemble a training collection of ∼19, 000 images from AP-10K [47] and
10     J. Zadrozny et al.

OpenApePose [8] (restricted to chimpanzees). Finally, for elephants, we assemble
a training collection of ∼21, 000 images comprising the Wild Elephant Dataset
from Kaggle and frames extracted from YouTube videos using the Animal-in-
Motion [50] pipeline.
3D assets and rendering. Our approach requires a canonical 3D mesh. For the
horse, cow, and sheep categories, we utilize the exact canonical assets provided
by DualPM. For chimps and elephants, we acquire publicly available meshes from
the internet. While we utilize manually rigged meshes in this work, our pipeline
is agnostic to the rigging source and can be paired with modern auto-rigging
solutions [22, 48].
Evaluation protocol. Our evaluation spans both strict baseline comparisons
and wider generalization tests. To this end, we utilize three quantitative test
splits for the horse category: (1) Animodel-Points [10, 13]: the exact test split
defined by DualPM; (2) Horse-Robust: a comprehensive, large-scale dataset of
15, 000 samples (compared to ∼500 in Animodel-Points), where only the male
horse template is available at training time, but the female template is used for
evaluation; (3) Horse-Mixed : a standard in-distribution split (18, 000 samples)
where models are both trained and evaluated on a mix of male and female
templates. We utilize this split for controlled ablation studies.
Evaluation metrics. Following the Animodel-Points benchmark protocol [10,
13], we evaluate the geometric accuracy of our predicted point clouds using the
Root-Mean-Square (RMS) bi-directional Chamfer Distance (CD), reported in
centimeters. We evaluate under both full rigid alignment (using Iterative Closest
Point (ICP)) and model-view alignment (restricted to scale and translation),
thereby penalizing inaccurate camera pose predictions. In the ablation studies,
we report with more granularity, i.e., the mean CD (mCD), the outlier ratio
denoted as % (CD > 5cm) which measures the fraction of test samples exceeding
a 5cm error threshold, and the angular camera rotation error ∆R (◦ ).
Baselines. We compare against category-specific models [10, 17, 21, 40, 42], in-
cluding the state-of-the-art DualPM [13], which is trained with full 3D supervi-
sion. For real-world categories where 3D supervision is unavailable, we compare
qualitatively against recent zero-shot 3D foundation models, namely SAM-3D [5]
and Trellis.2 [41], which are evaluated in a zero-shot manner.
Implementation summary. We employ the DualPM architecture as our point
map predictor. When training on synthetic images, we disable bone scaling, as
these datasets lack the individual anatomical variation present in real-world
samples. Furthermore, we observed that the original DualPM training regime
becomes unstable when supervised by the mesh articulations fitted to noisy
initial predictions, which inherently contain extreme outliers despite geomet-
ric regularization (particularly in the case of real-world images). To mitigate
this instability, we adopt a modified optimization regime tailored for noisy, self-
supervised targets (see the supplementary material for details). We typically run
our refinement loop for four iterations (see Sec. 4.3 for analysis). Further imple-
mentation details, including texture generation, camera pose distributions, and
mesh fitting parameters, are provided in the supplementary material.
      Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections                 11

Table 1: Quantitative evaluation on the Animodel-Points dataset. We report the Root
Mean Square Error (RMS) of the bi-directional Chamfer Distance in centimeters (↓).
Our methods in this comparison (‘Canonical’ and ‘Ours (synt)’) are trained on the
synthetic images from DualPM following original splits. We report both the results
with and without rotation alignment. Best results in bold, 2nd best underlined.

                   RMS Chamfer Distance (cm) ↓        Model-view RMS Chamfer Dist. (cm) ↓
 Method
                   Horse        Cow         Sheep        Horse           Cow        Sheep
 A-CSM [17]     11.75 ± 3.83 9.52 ± 2.41 9.24 ± 2.40 38.13 ± 13.89 33.51 ± 11.52 29.04 ± 9.35
 MagicPony [40] 11.19 ± 3.08 10.29 ± 2.08      –      20.82 ± 13.04 25.39 ± 13.43       –
 Farm3D [10]    11.34 ± 3.22 9.63 ± 2.02 11.01 ± 1.87 29.52 ± 15.73 21.34 ± 12.85 21.52 ± 9.84
 3D-Fauna [21] 11.86 ± 3.03 10.54 ± 2.26 9.61 ± 2.15 15.70 ± 6.82 14.08 ± 4.20 12.24 ± 3.17
 Trellis [42]    6.93 ± 4.13 6.80 ± 3.24 5.91 ± 2.93 36.82 ± 16.02 26.54 ± 13.14 26.56 ± 12.06
 DualPM [13]    4.30 ± 1.50 3.18 ± 1.06 3.30 ± 1.20 5.49 ± 1.75 4.03 ± 2.11 4.22 ± 2.18
 Canonical       7.88 ± 3.01 6.66 ± 2.31 6.62 ± 2.33 9.87 ± 4.55 7.85 ± 2.87 7.70 ± 2.66
 Ours (synt) 5.65 ± 1.57 4.17 ± 1.15 4.35 ± 1.26 7.73 ± 2.06 5.30 ± 2.42 5.04 ± 1.71


Table 2: Quantitative evaluation on the Horse-Robust test split. We report the Root
Mean Square Error of the bi-directional Chamfer Distance (RMS CD) and Model-
view (MV) RMS CD. Both variants of our approach outperform large-scale foundation
models despite using orders of magnitude less 3D supervision. Trellis.2 relies purely on
best-effort post-hoc rotation alignment which occasionally fails, inflating its error. Best
results in bold, 2nd best underlined.

   Metric (cm) ↓ Trellis.2 SAM-3D DualPM Canonical Ours (synt) Ours (real)
   RMS CD     8.92             6.42      3.84        7.84         5.10           6.01
   MV RMS CD 40.03             8.71      5.42       10.83         7.92           8.37



4.2     Results

Training on synthetic images. In Tab. 1 we quantitatively compare our ap-
proach to existing single image 3D object reconstruction methods. We compare
to both unsupervised and supervised methods, across the three object categories
(horse, cow, and sheep) evaluated in DualPM. DualPM reports state-of-the-art
performance on this task, and serves as a fully supervised upper bound for our
approach. We observe that the model trained only on images rendered from the
canonical mesh (‘Canonical’) is surprisingly effective, specifically on the com-
paratively easier sheep category which exhibits less articulation than horses. In
general, our method, trained on the exact synthetic image splits provided by
DualPM, approaches its performance while also outperforming the other base-
lines tested. See the supplementary material for a qualitative comparison with
3D-Fauna [21] and DualPM [13] on the cow and sheep categories.
Training on real images. Here we demonstrate the capabilities of our ap-
proach trained exclusively on real-world in-the-wild image collections. In Tab. 2
we compare the performance of our model trained on real-world images (‘Ours
(real)’) to DualPM, our model trained only on images rendered from the canon-
12      J. Zadrozny et al.

ical mesh (‘Canonical’), our model trained on synthetic images (‘Ours (synt)’),
and large image-to-3D supervised foundation models [5, 41] on the wide Horse-
Robust evaluation set. Our approach successfully leverages the pose diversity
contained in real-world images to improve performance from the ‘Canonical’ ini-
tialization point close to the version trained on synthetic images (which contain
far less inherent real-world diversity and hence the signal is easier to extract). Im-
portantly, ‘Ours (real)’ outperforms large-scale supervised models, despite using
orders of magnitude less 3D supervision.
    Fig. 3 demonstrates our scalability to other object categories, i.e., chim-
panzees and elephants, trained using real images. The image-to-3D foundation
models struggle with complex articulations, frequently hallucinating limbs or
producing overly straight, ‘canonicalized’ shapes due to strong symmetry priors.
In contrast, our template-fitting approach guarantees anatomical correctness,
and performs better on challenging, asymmetric articulations.

4.3   Ablations
In Tab. 3 we ablate the main components of our method on the Horse-Mixed test
split. Our starting point is a Canonical (base) model, trained exclusively on rest-
pose renders with standard Gaussian-sampled camera viewpoints (see the supple-
mentary material for details). Replacing this with heavy-tailed Student’s t cam-
era sampling immediately yields substantial gains by exposing the initialization
network to extreme, outlier viewpoints. Next, we introduce our iterative pipeline
(+ Refinement w/o reg.), which extracts posed training data from images. While
this provides a substantial performance leap, greedy point-cloud fitting produces
structural artifacts. Adding geometric penalties (+ Regularization) resolves this
by enforcing physically plausible articulations. Finally, + Viewpoint augmenta-
tion augments each fitted mesh with diverse novel viewpoints during rendering,
forming our complete method. Fig. 4 qualitatively compares the performance of
our full model trained on real-world images to the canonical initialization and
fully supervised DualPM.
    We additionally report a Random poses baseline, which trains the model
on stochastically deformed meshes with unconstrained, unnatural articulations.
Surprisingly, its relatively strong performance highlights that raw pose diversity
alone provides a strong training signal (see supplementary material for details).
Furthermore, we evaluate a Raw image baseline, where we bypass our render-
ing step and train directly on the original image collection paired with the 3D
supervision estimated from the previous iteration. As the initial mesh fitting is
imperfect, this introduces natural inconsistencies between the 2D visual input
and the 3D supervision. We observe that this setup fails to improve noticeably
beyond its initialization, underlining the absolute necessity of strict 2D-3D con-
sistency during training.
    Fig. 5 presents an ablation on the number of iterations used in our approach.
We observe a large jump in performance across all metrics after the first iteration
of our method when compared to the canonical baseline. This improvement
continues, approaching the performance of DualPM, but eventually plateaus.
      Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections        13

Table 3: Ablation study on the Horse-Mixed test split. Quantitative results evaluating
the impact of removing individual pipeline components. Lower scores are better.

        Ablation variant                    mCD (cm) % (mCD>5cm) ∆R(◦)
        DualPM (ground-truth 3D)               3.04         4.00        2.21
        Random poses baseline                  5.22         44.5        5.12
        Raw image baseline                     6.96         64.4        8.38
        Canonical (base)                      10.04         92.0        12.23
        + Student’s t camera sampling         7.24          68.4         7.51
        + Refinement (w/o fitting reg.)        5.59         55.1        6.73
        + Regularization in mesh fitting       4.85         35.0        5.89
        + Viewpoint augmentation (‘Ours’)      3.86         11.3        3.49




4.4     Limitations
While significantly reducing the amount of 3D supervision needed compared to
DualPM, our approach still needs some limited 3D data during training. Specif-
ically, we require a rigged and skinned mesh in a canonical rest pose. However,
in practice this is not difficult to acquire for common object categories and
automated rigging methods could be used if only a mesh is available. As demon-
strated by our experimental results, our approach successfully extracts pose di-
versity from real-world image collections to improve the predictor. However,
Tab. 2 shows that a performance gap remains between training on real-world
images, synthetic images, and ground-truth 3D. Finally, while our self-repulsion
loss effectively prevents unnatural intersections, its current formulation activates
broadly when body parts are in close proximity, which can occasionally hinder
our ability to recover tight, compressed articulations where valid body parts rest
against one another


5     Conclusion
Supervised learning-based approaches for 3D object reconstruction are only as
effective as the data they are trained on. Unlike 2D images, which are available
in abundance on the internet, diverse and high quality 3D datasets are much
more challenging to create. To sidestep this issue, we introduced a new scalable
and automated approach for 3D data generation called BAT3R. Starting from
only a single rigged mesh and 2D image collection as input, we showed that it is
possible to bootstrap from this initial limited data, via an iterative generation
approach, to create diverse and articulated 3D training data. We evaluated the
effectiveness of our approach on the challenging task of articulated 3D object
reconstruction from a single input image. We approach the performance of fully
supervised methods across multiple categories, even when only provided with a
fraction of the ground-truth 3D training data.
14            J. Zadrozny et al.

                         SAM 3D                  TRELLIS.2               Ours (PC)          Ours (fitted mesh)
Input image      Input view   Add. view   Input view   Add. view   Input view   Add. view   Input view   Add. view




Fig. 3: Qualitative comparison on real-world images across three challenging cate-
gories: horse, chimpanzee, and elephant. Trellis.2 [41] struggles with accurate real-world
conditioning and relies on post-hoc rigid ICP alignment of their predicted 3D shape
to a reference predicted point cloud (here we use ’Ours’). SAM-3D [5] exhibits strong
generalization but struggles with complex articulations. Strong symmetry priors often
cause hallucinated/missing limbs, overly straight ’canonicalized’ shapes, and failures
on extreme out-of-distribution poses (e.g., the prone chimpanzee). In contrast, our
predicted point clouds capture smooth deformations with natural curvature while dis-
ambiguating symmetric parts. Moreover, our template-fitting guarantees anatomical
correctness and recovers challenging articulations.
       Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections                                                                                                                                                   15


                                             Canonical                                    DualPM                                                   Ours (PC)                              Ours (fitted mesh)
Input image                   Input view                       Add. view      Input view               Add. view                          Input view          Add. view                   Input view                  Add. view




Fig. 4: Qualitative comparison on real-world horse images. We visualize point cloud
predictions (input and novel views) and our extracted fitted meshes. While the ‘Canon-
ical’ baseline captures the coarse pose, it struggles with complex geometry. It exhibits
noisy topology, missing parts, and mixed-up appendages (e.g., confusing the rear legs).
In contrast, our full model resolves these artifacts, yielding clean geometry that closely
matches the fully supervised DualPM.


                                  mCD (cm)                                                                      R( )                                                               % (mCD > 5cm)

                                                                                                                                                         80
  8
      7.24




                                                                                  7.51




                                                                                                                                                              68.4




                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                                         60
  6                                                                           6
                                                                5.22
             5.03




                                                                                                                                           5.12




                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                         4.89




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       44.5
                    4.32




                                                                                                                                                                     40.7
                           4.10

                                   4.02

                                          4.00

                                                 3.98




                                                                                                       4.10
                                                                                                4.06
                                                        3.86




                                                                                                                                                         40
                                                                                                              3.82

                                                                                                                     3.81




  4                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                   3.49
                                                                                                                            3.45
                                                                       3.04




                                                                                                                                                         30
                                                                                                                                                                            23.4
                                                                                                                                                  2.21




                                                                                                                                                                                   17.0




                                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                                                 14.5




  2
                                                                                                                                                                                          14.3



                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.8




                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               11.3




                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.0




  0                                                                           0                                                                          0
     se) al
         r1
         r2
         r3
         r4
         r5
         r6

  Ra er 7
  Po om

     3DPM




                                                                                   se) al
                                                                                       r1
                                                                                       r2
                                                                                       r3
                                                                                       r4
                                                                                       r5
                                                                                       r6

                                                                                Ra er 7
                                                                                Pondom

                                                                                   3DPM




                                                                                                                                                              se) al
                                                                                                                                                                  r1
                                                                                                                                                                  r2
                                                                                                                                                                  r3
                                                                                                                                                                  r4
                                                                                                                                                                  r5
                                                                                                                                                                  r6

                                                                                                                                                           Ra er 7
                                                                                                                                                           Pondom

                                                                                                                                                              3DPM
 (Baonic




                                                                               (Baonic




                                                                                                                                                          (Baonic
(GTDuals
         )




                                                                              (GTDuals
                                                                                      )




                                                                                                                                                         (GTDuals
                                                                                                                                                                 )
     Ite
     Ite
     Ite
     Ite
     Ite
     Ite




                                                                                   Ite
                                                                                   Ite
                                                                                   Ite
                                                                                   Ite
                                                                                   Ite
                                                                                   Ite




                                                                                                                                                              Ite
                                                                                                                                                              Ite
                                                                                                                                                              Ite
                                                                                                                                                              Ite
                                                                                                                                                              Ite
                                                                                                                                                              Ite
       d
     se




                                                                                   se




                                                                                                                                                              se
     It




                                                                                   It




                                                                                                                                                              It
     n
   n




                                                                                 n




                                                                                                                                                            n
Ca




                                                                              Ca




                                                                                                                                                         Ca




Fig. 5: Performance across refinement iterations. Errors drops significantly after the
first iteration compared to the canonical baseline, then improves over successive iter-
ations and plateaus while approaching the fully supervised DualPM (rightmost bars).
Notably, the outlier metric % (mCD>5cm) continues to show consistent improvements
up through the seventh iteration.
16      J. Zadrozny et al.

Acknowledgements. JZ was supported by the United Kingdom Research and
Innovation (grant EP/S023208/1), UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Robotics
and Autonomous Systems at the University of Edinburgh, School of Informatics.
OMA was supported by a Royal Society Research Grant. HB was supported by
the EPSRC Visual AI grant EP/T028572/1.


References
 1. Aygun, M., Mac Aodha, O.: Saor: Single-view articulated object reconstruction.
    In: CVPR (2024)
 2. Black, M.J., Patel, P., Tesch, J., Yang, J.: Bedlam: A synthetic dataset of bodies
    exhibiting detailed lifelike animated motion. In: CVPR (2023)
 3. Cai, Z., Zhang, M., Ren, J., Wei, C., Ren, D., Lin, Z., Zhao, H., Yang, L., Loy,
    C.C., Liu, Z.: Playing for 3d human recovery. TPAMI (2024)
 4. Chen, D.Z., Siddiqui, Y., Lee, H.Y., Tulyakov, S., Nießner, M.: Text2tex: Text-
    driven texture synthesis via diffusion models. In: ICCV (2023)
 5. Chen, X., Chu, F.J., Gleize, P., Liang, K.J., Sax, A., Tang, H., Wang, W., Guo,
    M., Hardin, T., Li, X., et al.: Sam 3d: 3dfy anything in images. In: CVPR (2026)
 6. Deitke, M., Liu, R., Wallingford, M., Ngo, H., Michel, O., Kusupati, A., Fan, A.,
    Laforte, C., Voleti, V., Gadre, S.Y., et al.: Objaverse-xl: A universe of 10m+ 3d
    objects. NeurIPS (2023)
 7. Deitke, M., Schwenk, D., Salvador, J., Weihs, L., Michel, O., VanderBilt, E.,
    Schmidt, L., Ehsani, K., Kembhavi, A., Farhadi, A.: Objaverse: A universe of
    annotated 3d objects. In: CVPR (2023)
 8. Desai, N., Bala, P., Richardson, R., Raper, J., Zimmermann, J., Hayden, B.: Ope-
    napepose: a database of annotated ape photographs for pose estimation. eLife
    (2023)
 9. Goel, S., Kanazawa, A., Malik, J.: Shape and viewpoint without keypoints. In:
    ECCV (2020)
10. Jakab, T., Li, R., Wu, S., Rupprecht, C., Vedaldi, A.: Farm3d: Learning articulated
    3d animals by distilling 2d diffusion. In: CVPR (2024)
11. Kabsch, W.: A solution for the best rotation to relate two sets of vectors. Founda-
    tions of Crystallography (1976)
12. Kanazawa, A., Tulsiani, S., Efros, A.A., Malik, J.: Learning category-specific mesh
    reconstruction from image collections. In: ECCV (2018)
13. Kaye, B., Jakab, T., Wu, S., Ruprecht, C., Vedaldi, A.: Dualpm: dual posed-
    canonical point maps for 3d shape and pose reconstruction. In: CVPR (2025)
14. Kerbl, B., Kopanas, G., Leimkühler, T., Drettakis, G., et al.: 3d gaussian splatting
    for real-time radiance field rendering. ACM TOG (2023)
15. Kingma, D.P., Ba, J.: Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1412.6980 (2014)
16. Kirillov, A., Mintun, E., Ravi, N., Mao, H., Rolland, C., Gustafson, L., Xiao, T.,
    Whitehead, S., Berg, A.C., Lo, W.Y., et al.: Segment anything. In: ICCV (2023)
17. Kulkarni, N., Gupta, A., Fouhey, D.F., Tulsiani, S.: Articulation-aware canonical
    surface mapping. In: CVPR (2020)
18. Kulkarni, N., Gupta, A., Tulsiani, S.: Canonical surface mapping via geometric
    cycle consistency. In: ICCV (2019)
19. Li, X., Liu, S., Kim, K., De Mello, S., Jampani, V., Yang, M.H., Kautz, J.: Self-
    supervised single-view 3d reconstruction via semantic consistency. In: ECCV (2020)
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction from 2D Image Collections            17

20. Li, Y., Takehara, H., Taketomi, T., Zheng, B., Nießner, M.: 4dcomplete: Non-rigid
    motion estimation beyond the observable surface. In: ICCV (2021)
21. Li, Z., Litvak, D., Li, R., Zhang, Y., Jakab, T., Rupprecht, C., Wu, S., Vedaldi,
    A., Wu, J.: Learning the 3d fauna of the web. In: CVPR (2024)
22. Liu, I., Xu, Z., Yifan, W., Tan, H., Xu, Z., Wang, X., Su, H., Shi, Z.: Riganything:
    Template-free autoregressive rigging for diverse 3d assets. ACM TOG (2025)
23. Liu, R., Wu, R., Van Hoorick, B., Tokmakov, P., Zakharov, S., Vondrick, C.: Zero-
    1-to-3: Zero-shot one image to 3d object. In: ICCV (2023)
24. Long, X., Guo, Y.C., Lin, C., Liu, Y., Dou, Z., Liu, L., Ma, Y., Zhang, S.H.,
    Habermann, M., Theobalt, C., et al.: Wonder3d: Single image to 3d using cross-
    domain diffusion. In: CVPR (2024)
25. Loper, M., Mahmood, N., Romero, J., Pons-Moll, G., Black, M.J.: Smpl: A skinned
    multi-person linear model. In: Seminal Graphics Papers: Pushing the Boundaries
    (2023)
26. Mildenhall, B., Srinivasan, P.P., Tancik, M., Barron, J.T., Ramamoorthi, R., Ng,
    R.: Nerf: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view synthesis. Commu-
    nications of the ACM (2021)
27. Monnier, T., Fisher, M., Efros, A.A., Aubry, M.: Share with thy neighbors: Single-
    view reconstruction by cross-instance consistency. In: ECCV (2022)
28. Murez, Z., Van As, T., Bartolozzi, J., Sinha, A., Badrinarayanan, V., Rabinovich,
    A.: Atlas: End-to-end 3d scene reconstruction from posed images. In: ECCV (2020)
29. Niewiadomski, T., Yiannakidis, A., Cuevas-Velasquez, H., Sanyal, S., Black, M.J.,
    Zuffi, S., Kulits, P.: Generative zoo. In: ICCV (2025)
30. Oquab, M., Darcet, T., Moutakanni, T., Vo, H., Szafraniec, M., Khalidov, V.,
    Fernandez, P., Haziza, D., Massa, F., El-Nouby, A., et al.: Dinov2: Learning robust
    visual features without supervision. In: TMLR (2024)
31. Ravi, N., Gabeur, V., Hu, Y.T., Hu, R., Ryali, C., Ma, T., Khedr, H., Rädle, R.,
    Rolland, C., Gustafson, L., et al.: Sam 2: Segment anything in images and videos.
    In: ICLR (2025)
32. Rueegg, N., Zuffi, S., Schindler, K., Black, M.J.: Barc: Breed-augmented regression
    using classification for 3d dog reconstruction from images. IJCV (2023)
33. Rüegg, N., Tripathi, S., Schindler, K., Black, M.J., Zuffi, S.: Bite: Beyond priors
    for improved three-d dog pose estimation. In: CVPR (2023)
34. Schönberger, J.L., Frahm, J.M.: Structure-from-motion revisited. In: CVPR (2016)
35. Song, C., Li, X., Yang, F., Xu, Z., Wei, J., Liu, F., Feng, J., Lin, G., Zhang, J.:
    Puppeteer: Rig and animate your 3d models. In: NeurIPS (2025)
36. Tesch, J., Becherini, G., Achar, P., Yiannakidis, A., Kocabas, M., Patel, P., Black,
    M.J.: Bedlam2. 0: Synthetic humans and cameras in motion. In: NeurIPS (2025)
37. Vicente, S., Carreira, J., Agapito, L., Batista, J.: Reconstructing pascal voc. In:
    CVPR (2014)
38. Wang, S., Leroy, V., Cabon, Y., Chidlovskii, B., Revaud, J.: Dust3r: Geometric 3d
    vision made easy. In: CVPR (2024)
39. Wu, S., Jakab, T., Rupprecht, C., Vedaldi, A.: Dove: Learning deformable 3d ob-
    jects by watching videos. IJCV (2023)
40. Wu, S., Li, R., Jakab, T., Rupprecht, C., Vedaldi, A.: Magicpony: Learning artic-
    ulated 3d animals in the wild. In: CVPR (2023)
41. Xiang, J., Chen, X., Xu, S., Wang, R., Lv, Z., Deng, Y., Zhu, H., Dong, Y., Zhao,
    H., Yuan, N.J., et al.: Native and compact structured latents for 3d generation. In:
    CVPR (2026)
18      J. Zadrozny et al.

42. Xiang, J., Lv, Z., Xu, S., Deng, Y., Wang, R., Zhang, B., Chen, D., Tong, X.,
    Yang, J.: Structured 3d latents for scalable and versatile 3d generation. In: CVPR
    (2025)
43. Xu, J., Zhang, Y., Peng, J., Ma, W., Jesslen, A., Ji, P., Hu, Q., Zhang, J., Liu, Q.,
    Wang, J., et al.: Animal3d: A comprehensive dataset of 3d animal pose and shape.
    In: ICCV (2023)
44. Yang, Z., Cai, Z., Mei, H., Liu, S., Chen, Z., Xiao, W., Wei, Y., Qing, Z., Wei,
    C., Dai, B., et al.: Synbody: Synthetic dataset with layered human models for 3d
    human perception and modeling. In: ICCV (2023)
45. Yao, C.H., Hung, W.C., Li, Y., Rubinstein, M., Yang, M.H., Jampani, V.: Lassie:
    Learning articulated shapes from sparse image ensemble via 3d part discovery.
    NeurIPS (2022)
46. Yao, C.H., Hung, W.C., Li, Y., Rubinstein, M., Yang, M.H., Jampani, V.: Hi-lassie:
    High-fidelity articulated shape and skeleton discovery from sparse image ensemble.
    In: CVPR (2023)
47. Yu, H., Xu, Y., Zhang, J., Zhao, W., Guan, Z., Tao, D.: Ap-10k: A benchmark for
    animal pose estimation in the wild. In: NeurIPS Track on Datasets and Benchmarks
    (2021)
48. Zhang, J.P., Pu, C.F., Guo, M.H., Cao, Y.P., Hu, S.M.: One model to rig them all:
    Diverse skeleton rigging with unirig. ACM TOG (2025)
49. Zhang, J., Herrmann, C., Hur, J., Polania Cabrera, L., Jampani, V., Sun, D.,
    Yang, M.H.: A tale of two features: Stable diffusion complements dino for zero-
    shot semantic correspondence. In: NeurIPS (2023)
50. Zhao, B.N., Wu, J., Wu, S.: Web-scale collection of video data for 4d animal re-
    construction. In: NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks Track (2026)
51. Zou, Z.X., Yu, Z., Guo, Y.C., Li, Y., Liang, D., Cao, Y.P., Zhang, S.H.: Triplane
    meets gaussian splatting: Fast and generalizable single-view 3d reconstruction with
    transformers. In: CVPR (2024)
52. Zuffi, S., Kanazawa, A., Jacobs, D.W., Black, M.J.: 3d menagerie: Modeling the
    3d shape and pose of animals. In: CVPR (2017)
53. Zuffi, S., Mellbin, Y., Li, C., Hoeschle, M., Kjellström, H., Polikovsky, S., Hernlund,
    E., Black, M.J.: Varen: Very accurate and realistic equine network. In: CVPR
    (2024)
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction
             from 2D Image Collections
             – Supplementary Material

            Jakub Zadrozny, Oisin Mac Aodha          , and Hakan Bilen

                              University of Edinburgh
                          jakubzadrozny.github.io/bat3r



A     Additional results

A.1    Additional qualitative comparisons

See Fig. A1 for additional qualitative comparisons to the unsupervised 3D-
Fauna [21] and fully-supervised DualPM [13] on the horse, cow, and sheep cat-
egories. This comparison uses the same models as Tab. 1, i.e., trained on the
synthetic images from DualPM following original splits.


A.2    Performance across different object pose clusters

To get a deeper understanding of the influence of object pose diversity on the
performance of the trained 2D-to-3D predictor we partition the diverse range of
poses in the dataset of [13] into ten distinct, semantic clusters using the K-Means
algorithm. To ensure the clustering is invariant to the global camera viewpoint
and focuses strictly on the intrinsic body configuration, we extract three key
geometric features for each pose.
    Let J denote the set of skeletal joints. For a given pose defined by the local
joint transforms Tj we first compute the excess local joint rotations (from the rest
pose) θj . Let θk represent the axis-angle rotation vector of the j-th joint, let θ
be the stacked local joint rotations θj , and let xj (θ) and xcj denote the j-th joint
3D position in the articulated state and the canonical rest pose, respectively.
For each sample in the dataset we compute the following feature vector f =
[fang , fsq , fdist ]⊤ , where we define:
                                             1
                                               P
  – Mean angular deviation: fang = |J|            k∈J ∥θk ∥2 . This captures the aver-
    age magnitude of local excess joint rotations across  P the entire      skeleton.
                                                       1                2
  – Mean squared angular deviation: fsq = |J|               k∈J  ∥θ k ∥ 2 . By penalizing
    larger rotations more heavily, this feature effectively between poses char-
    acterized by widespread, gradual bending versus those exhibiting localized,
    extreme articulations.
  – Aligned joint distance: fdist = k∈J ∥Talign (xk (θ)) − xck ∥2 . We apply the
                                          P
    Kabsch algorithm to find the optimal rigid transformation Talign (comprising
    only rotation and translation) that aligns the articulated joints xk (θ) to
20     J. Zadrozny et al.




Fig. A1: Qualitative comparisons to the unsupervised 3D-Fauna [21], supervised Du-
alPM [13], and Ours. 3D-Fauna struggles with challenging poses (see top two rows),
whereas our approach obtains results comparable to the fully supervised DualPM. Our
models in this comparison are trained on the synthetic images from DualPM following
original splits.
                              Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material                                                                                                 21

                                         Full Dataset                               Train Subset                         Alternative Train Subset                         Test Subset
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 0
                         8                                                                                                                        Cluster 1
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 2
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 3
                         6                                                                                                                        Cluster 4
Aligned Joint Distance

                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 5
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 6
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 7
                         4                                                                                                                        Cluster 8
                                                                                                                                                  Cluster 9

                         2


                         0
                             0.1    0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6           0.7   0.1    0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6           0.7   0.1    0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6           0.7   0.1    0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6           0.7
                                   Mean Angular Deviation (rad)               Mean Angular Deviation (rad)               Mean Angular Deviation (rad)               Mean Angular Deviation (rad)


Fig. A2: Pose diversity across dataset splits. 2D scatter plots mapping dataset
samples by their aligned joint distance (fdist ) and mean angular deviation (fang ). We
visualize the geometric distribution of poses across the Full Dataset, the stratified Base
Train Subset, the restricted Alternative Train Set, and the held-out Test Set. Crucially,
the Alternative Train Set deliberately excludes highly deformed and out-of-distribution
samples (clusters 0, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 9), isolating the core articulations to evaluate model
generalization.


                             their canonical counterparts xck . This feature measures the residual Euclidean
                             distance after alignment, capturing the overall spatial deformation of the
                             skeleton.
    We then standardize the features to zero mean and unit variance, and apply
K-Means clustering (K = 10) to assign each pose to its respective articulation
cluster. Fig. A2 contains a scatter plots mapping dataset samples by their aligned
joint distance (fdist ) and mean angular deviation (fang ).

Dataset splitting and generalization sets. Here we measure DualPM’s ca-
pacity to generalize to unseen or underrepresented articulations by constructing
two distinct training set variants from the full dataset. First, we define a Base
Train Set, which is generated by sampling from the entire dataset, stratified
by the geometric K-Means cluster IDs (as defined in Sec. A.2). This ensures
a proportional representation of all discovered articulation modes. Second, we
construct an Alternative Train Set which represents the designed to test gen-
eralization on non-trivial, intricate, out-of-distribution poses. For this set, we
explicitly exclude all samples belonging to clusters which represent poses signif-
icantly differing from the rest pose (cluster IDs {0, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9}). Since these
clusters are underrepresented in the general dataset, they only comprise 5,000
training samples, i.e., ≈ 31.5% of the original training set. We retain all 10,872
samples from the allowed clusters ({1, 4, 7, 8}) that were already present in the
base train set and compensate for the total volume of the alternative train set
by sampling additional instances from the allowed clusters to match the size of
the original train set (15,872 samples). This yields a deliberate overlap of exactly
10,872 samples (approximately 68.5%) between the two training splits. The ex-
act composition of our overall dataset, along with the two training splits and
the held-out test set (non-intersecting with neither the original train set nor the
alternative), is detailed in Tab. A1.
22      J. Zadrozny et al.

Results. Fig. A4 reports the per-cluster performance of our method compared
to several baselines: our canonical-only initialization, the random poses baseline,
and the fully-supervised DualPM trained on both the Base (wide) and Alterna-
tive (narrow) splits.

    First, we note that generalization of DualPM to in-distribution poses (e.g.,
clusters 0, 6, and 9 are closely related to clusters 1, 7, 8) is good. Nevertheless,
providing our approach with the wider variety of training images (which is easier
to collect at scale compared to ground-truth poses) compensates the lack of
ground-truth poses in these cases (our approach slightly outperforms the gold
DualPM trained on the alternative test set).

    We observe that DualPM generalizes reasonably well to structurally similar
in-distribution poses (e.g., the held-out clusters 0, 6, and 9 share geometric
similarities with the permitted training clusters 1, 7, and 8). Nevertheless, our
proposed refinement, which leverages a wider variety of unannotated 2D training
images, effectively compensates for the lack of ground-truth 3D supervision.
On these structurally related clusters, our approach slightly outperforms the
DualPM model trained on the restricted Alternative set.

   Crucially, this experiment highlights that DualPM struggles to generalize
to strictly out-of-distribution (OOD) articulations (e.g., clusters 2, 3, and 5,
though we note cluster 5 also exhibits a significant viewpoint distribution shift).
On these OOD clusters, our approach significantly outperforms the DualPM
baseline trained on the Alternative train set. Interestingly, for clusters 2 and 5,
even our naive canonical-trained model surpasses the narrow DualPM variant,
indicating that explicit 3D supervision on limited articulation modes makes the
network susceptible to pose-related overfitting.

    Consequently, adapting fully-supervised methods like DualPM to novel cat-
egories necessitates a comprehensive dataset of manually authored 3D articula-
tions, which is a highly expensive and time-consuming process. Omissions in the
training distribution directly bottlenecks downstream performance. In contrast,
our refinement strategy provides a scalable alternative: by deriving geometric
priors directly from widely available, diverse 2D image collections, we yield a
more robust and generalized 3D estimator.

    Furthermore, the per-cluster breakdown confirms the intuitive premise that
the advantages of our refinement process (as well as explicit 3D ground truth)
scale with increasing articulation complexity. As depicted in Fig. A4, our ap-
proach achieves its most substantial margins of improvement over the canon-
ical and random-pose baselines on clusters 2, 3, and 9. Visualized in Fig. A3,
these clusters are characterized by highly non-trivial, extreme articulations. Con-
versely, for clusters 4 and 8, which predominantly feature standing poses closely
resembling the canonical rest state, all evaluated variants achieve comparable,
accurate alignments.
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material    23




Fig. A3: Examples of synthetic images from the DualPM [13] dataset split by the
assigned cluster.
24                   J. Zadrozny et al.


                             Canonical (+ t-Student's cameras)          Random poses        Ours           DualPM (Base Train)          DualPM (Alt. Train)

                                 Cluster 0 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)                                                       Cluster 1
                                                                                       10
               10
                     8.69                                                                          8.21
                                                                                       8
                 8

                                    6.01                                               6
                 6
     CD (cm)




                                                                              5.19                               4.79
                                                  4.22                                                                           3.72
                 4                                                                     4
                                                                 3.26                                                                          3.01           2.98

                 2                                                                     2

                 0                                                                     0
                                 Cluster 2 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)                                         Cluster 3 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)
               14
                                                                                       14
               12
                     10.93                                                             12                                                                     11.48
               10                                                             8.98     10                        9.74
                                                                                                   8.91
                 8                  7.31                                               8
     CD (cm)




                 6                                5.03                                 6
                                                                                                                                 4.59
                 4                                               3.22                  4                                                       3.15
                 2                                                                     2
                 0                                                                     0
                                               Cluster 4                                                      Cluster 5 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)
                                                                                       30
                 4
                     3.53                                                              25                                                                     24.41
                                    3.33
                 3                                2.85                                 20
                                                                 2.48         2.43
       CD (cm)




                                                                                       15
                 2
                                                                                       10          9.44
                                                                                                                 7.69
                 1                                                                                                               5.80
                                                                                       5                                                       3.99

                 0                                                                     0
                                 Cluster 6 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)                                                       Cluster 7
                                                                                       8
                 8   7.46                                                              7           6.65
                                    6.33                                               6
                                                                                                                 5.32
                 6
                                                                                       5
       CD (cm)




                                                  4.32                        4.38     4                                         3.94
                 4                                               3.29                                                                          3.18           3.18
                                                                                       3

                 2                                                                     2
                                                                                       1
                 0                                                                     0
                                               Cluster 8                                                      Cluster 9 (EXCLUDED from alt. train)

                 6                                                                     12
                     5.20                                                                          10.07
                 5                                                                     10
                                    4.31
                 4                                3.70                                 8
                                                                                                                 6.39
       CD (cm)




                                                                 3.02         2.95     6
                 3
                                                                                                                                 4.12                         4.49
                 2                                                                     4                                                       3.10
                 1                                                                     2

                 0                                                                     0


Fig. A4: mCD (cm) breakdown by cluster ID. While fully-supervised models like Du-
alPM struggle to generalize to out-of-distribution poses (for the Alternative Train Set),
our scalable refinement strategy (‘Ours’) leverages diverse unannotated 2D images to
maintain high accuracy across all clusters.
      Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material           25

Table A1: Distribution of articulation modes across dataset splits. For each cluster,
we report the raw sample count alongside its relative percentage within that specific
split. The Alternative Train split entirely excludes six clusters while upsampling the
remaining four to maintain a consistent total training size.

         Cluster ID          Overall    Base Train     Alt. Train            Test
              0         9, 129 (9.1%) 1, 548 (9.8%)        0 (0.0%) 1, 895 (9.8%)
              1       26, 427 (26.4%) 4, 390 (27.7%) 6, 276 (39.5%) 5, 386 (27.7%)
              2         3, 124 (3.1%)     613 (3.9%)       0 (0.0%)     754 (3.9%)
              3         3, 184 (3.2%)     522 (3.3%)       0 (0.0%)     643 (3.3%)
              4       13, 335 (13.3%) 2, 008 (12.7%) 3, 012 (19.0%) 2, 470 (12.7%)
              5         2, 560 (2.6%)     256 (1.6%)       0 (0.0%)     305 (1.6%)
              6         5, 595 (5.6%)     870 (5.5%)       0 (0.0%) 1, 057 (5.4%)
              7       12, 587 (12.6%) 1, 946 (12.3%) 2, 881 (18.2%) 2, 375 (12.2%)
              8       16, 008 (16.0%) 2, 528 (15.9%) 3, 703 (23.3%) 3, 097 (15.9%)
              9         8, 051 (8.1%) 1, 191 (7.5%)        0 (0.0%) 1, 450 (7.5%)
            Total     100, 000 (100%) 15, 872 (100%) 15, 872 (100%) 19, 432 (100%)




B     Ablations

B.1     Further details on ablation variants

In this section, we detail the specific ablation variants evaluated in Tab. 3. More-
over, Fig. A5 shows a qualitative comparison of different ablation variants of our
approach.
     Our baseline, ‘Canonical (base)’, model consists of a 3D prediction module
trained exclusively on synthetic renders of the provided mesh in its canonical
(i.e., rest) pose. The camera poses for this base variant (defined in spherical
coordinates) are determined as follows: the azimuth angle is sampled uniformly
across the full 360◦ range, while the elevation and roll angles are drawn from
a standard Gaussian distribution fitted to the empirical poses of the DualPM
dataset, as detailed in Sec. B.3. The camera is centered at the mesh, with the
radius dynamically adjusted to ensure the subject fills the image frame, leaving
a relative bounding margin uniformly sampled from [0.1, 0.25].
     We then evaluate an updated canonical baseline (‘+ Student’s t camera sam-
pling’) that replaces the Gaussian sampling with the heavy-tailed Student’s t-
distribution (see Sec. B.3). As shown in the results, this adjustment alone yields
a substantial performance improvement by better exposing the network to ex-
treme, outlier viewpoints during initialization.
     Next, we introduce our iterative refinement pipeline (‘+ Refinement (w/o
fitting reg.)’) as described in Sec. 3. In this ablation, the target mesh fitting is
performed in a purely greedy manner, i.e., omitting all geometric regularization
loss terms. Furthermore, we do not utilize the viewpoint augmentation step
(Sec. B.4). Instead, each training image generates exactly one paired 2D-3D
training instance using the camera pose estimated directly from the input image.
26      J. Zadrozny et al.




Fig. A5: Qualitative comparisons to different variants of our model. The canonical
model (blue), despite being only trained on data from a single mesh, is surprisingly
effective at generalizing to unusual poses (see fourth row). This is likely thanks to the
strong prior provided by the DINOv2 [30] features used by DualPM. Similarly, the
model trained on random poses (red) performs well, but upon close inspection there
are noticeable artifacts, e.g., the crossed legs in the second row. Our results (green) are
comparable to DualPM’s (yellow), but trained on a fraction of the 3D supervision.


    Building on this, the ‘+ Regularization in mesh fitting’ variant reintroduces
the structural regularization losses during the fitting phase to encourage physi-
cally plausible mesh states.
    Finally, the ‘+ Viewpoint augmentation’ variant augments each fitted mesh
with diverse novel viewpoints during rendering which we describe below to ad-
dress front/rear viewpoint performance. This final configuration represents our
complete, proposed methodology (i.e., ‘Ours’).

B.2    Random poses baseline
Table 3 in the main text compares our proposed approach against a naive base-
line (‘Random poses baseline‘), which trains the DualPM architecture entirely
on stochastically generated mesh articulations. For this baseline, we synthesize
a training dataset of N = 45, 000 samples. As detailed in Sec. 3, each pose is pa-
rameterized by the excess joint rotations relative to the rest pose, parameterized
as axis-angle vectors.
    To sample a single random pose, we compute the rotation for each joint
independently. First, a rotation axis is sampled uniformly at random from the
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material          27




Fig. A6: Examples of training samples generated based on random articulations (see
Sec. B.2). The σ of the Half-Normal distribution used to sample joint angles is shown
on the left.



unit sphere. The magnitude of this rotation (the angle) is then drawn from a
Half-Normal distribution truncated at π. The variance of this distribution is
governed by a shared pose-level complexity parameter σ, defined as σ = σ1 +
t(σ2 − σ1 ). To ensure the generated dataset contains a natural, continuous blend
of subtle, near-rest poses and highly deformed articulations, the interpolation
factor t ∈ [0, 1] is sampled from a Beta(1, 3) distribution for each pose, with
empirical bounds set to σ1 = 0.1 and σ2 = 0.5. To filter out highly degenerate
or particularly extreme outliers, we evaluate the mean angular deviation of each
generated pose (as defined in Sec. A.2) and discard all samples falling within
the upper quartile (25%). Finally, in this ‘Random poses baseline‘ experiment
we use the same camera pose sampling strategy as in the ‘+ Student’s t camera
sampling’ ablation.
    It is important to note that these stochastically sampled poses are entirely
unconstrained by biomechanical limits. Consequently, the resulting articulated
meshes frequently exhibit severe physical artifacts, including self-intersections,
unnatural stretching, and volume loss (see visual examples in Fig. A6). Despite
these severe geometric distortions, this baseline achieves unexpectedly compet-
itive quantitative performance (see Tab. 3). See Fig. A5 for a qualitative com-
parison to other ablation variants. This highlights the inherent robustness of
the underlying architecture when exposed to high-variance spatial data, further
validating the necessity of broad pose diversity during training.
28      J. Zadrozny et al.

B.3    Camera viewpoint analysis for robust synthetic sampling

To systematically analyze the distribution of camera poses, we map each world-
space camera into a normalized, body-centric spherical coordinate system invari-
ant to the global orientation of the articulated mesh.
    First, we establish a local orthogonal coordinate frame anchored to the sub-
ject’s skeletal joints. This requires the manual definition of an origin joint, along-
side two pairs of joints to dictate the forward axis and the horizontal reference
plane. For example, on the horse mesh, a natural configuration utilizes the mid-
dle of the spine as the origin, two adjacent spine joints for the forward axis, and
the left and right hips to define the horizontal plane. These initial directional
vectors serve as a rough basis for subsequent orthogonalization, meaning the
selected joint pairs need not be strictly coplanar or intersecting.
    Let ∆P denote the Cartesian position of the camera relative to the origin
joint (both in world space). We project ∆P into the local body frame to extract
the standard spherical camera parameters: azimuth, elevation, roll, and radius.
The empirical distribution of camera poses within the synthetically generated
DualPM dataset is visualized in Fig. A7. As the camera radius is consistently
scaled to ensure the subject fills the image frame (as shown in Fig. A3), we
restrict our quantitative analysis to the angular parameters: azimuth, elevation,
and roll. In this convention, an azimuth of 0◦ designates a direct frontal view,
±90◦ correspond to the lateral profiles, and ±180◦ indicates a strict rear view.
While the azimuth angle exhibits a generally uniform distribution, its joint dis-
tribution with elevation and roll reveals notable structural patterns.
    A primary observation from Fig. A7 is the substantial presence of unusual
viewpoints within the dataset. Furthermore, a per-cluster breakdown (e.g., clus-
ters 2 and 6 in Fig. A7) indicates the presence of explicitly hand-crafted camera
trajectories that deviate significantly from a neutral, zero-elevation, and zero-roll
perspective.
    Recall that to initialize our iterative refinement pipeline, we synthesize a
dataset by rendering the canonical mesh from diverse viewpoints. To ensure
an adequate representation of outlier views while preventing strict overfitting
to the exact DualPM camera views, we sample the azimuth angle uniformly,
whereas the elevation and roll angles are drawn from a Student’s t-distribution
parameterized by fitting the empirical DualPM data. As illustrated in Fig. A8,
the Student’s t-distribution effectively captures the heavy-tailed nature of the
empirical viewpoint data, clearly outperforming a standard Gaussian fit. The
quantitative impact of this heavy-tailed sampling strategy is validated in our
ablations (see Tab. 3), demonstrating that robustly representing extreme view-
points during canonical initialization is critical for the stability and accuracy of
the final 3D estimator.


B.4    Viewpoint augmentation

Fig. A9 shows the fraction of test samples exceeding a mean 5cm error thresh-
old (effectively representing significant reconstruction failures), stratified by the
                  Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material                                                    29

                          Overall Dataset - Azimuth / Elevation                                        Overall Dataset - Azimuth / Roll
              (70, 80]                                                           (140, 160]
              (50, 60]                                            103            (100, 120]                                               103
              (30, 40]                                                               (60, 80]
                                                                  102                                                                     102
              (10, 20]                                                               (20, 40]
Elevation




                                                                        Roll
               (-10, 0]                                           101                 (-20, 0]                                            101
            (-30, -20]                                                             (-60, -40]
            (-50, -40]                                            100            (-100, -80]                                              100
            (-70, -60]                                                         (-140, -120]
                                                                  0                                                                       0
            (-90, -80]                                                         (-180, -160]
                  (-1 160]

                    (-1 20]

                      (-6 0]

                         (-2 ]
                                0]

                                0]

                    (10 ]

                    (14 0]
                                0]




                                                                                         (-1 160]

                                                                                           (-1 20]

                                                                                             (-6 0]

                                                                                                (-2 ]
                                                                                                       0]

                                                                                                       0]

                                                                                           (10 ]

                                                                                           (14 0]
                                                                                                       0]
                              -40




                                0




                                                                                                     -40




                                                                                                       0
                            , -8




                             ,4

                             ,8

                             12

                             16




                                                                                                   , -8




                                                                                                    ,4

                                                                                                    ,8

                                                                                                    12

                                                                                                    16
                             0,




                                                                                                    0,
                          , -1




                                                                                                 , -1
                          ,-




                        (20

                        (60




                                                                                                 ,-




                                                                                               (20

                                                                                               (60
                          0,




                                                                                                 0,
                         0,

                         0,




                                                                                                0,

                                                                                                0,
                        00




                                                                                               00
                      80

                      40




                                                                                             80

                                                                                             40
                  (-1




                                                                                         (-1
                                         Azimuth                                                                   Azimuth
                             Cluster 2 - Azimuth / Elevation                                              Cluster 2 - Azimuth / Roll
              (70, 80]                                            102            (140, 160]
              (50, 60]                                                           (100, 120]                                               102
              (30, 40]                                                               (60, 80]
              (10, 20]                                            101                (20, 40]                                             101
Elevation




                                                                        Roll
               (-10, 0]                                                               (-20, 0]
            (-30, -20]                                            100              (-60, -40]                                             100
            (-50, -40]                                                           (-100, -80]
            (-70, -60]                                                         (-140, -120]
                                                                  0                                                                       0
            (-90, -80]                                                         (-180, -160]
                    (-1 160]

                      (-1 20]

                        (-6 0]

                           (-2 ]
                                  0]

                                  0]

                      (10 ]

                      (14 0]
                                  0]




                                                                                                   40 ]
                                                                                                 (-1 20]

                                                                                                   (-6 0]

                                                                                                      (-2 ]
                                                                                                             0]

                                                                                                             0]

                                                                                                 (10 ]

                                                                                                 (14 0]
                                                                                                             0]
                                -40




                                  0




                                                                                                 60




                                                                                                           -40




                                                                                                             0
                              , -8




                               ,4

                               ,8

                               12

                               16




                                                                                                         , -8




                                                                                                          ,4

                                                                                                          ,8

                                                                                                          12

                                                                                                          16
                               0,




                                                                                                          0,
                            , -1




                                                                                             , -1

                                                                                                       , -1
                            ,-




                          (20

                          (60




                                                                                                     (20

                                                                                                     (60
                            0,




                                                                                                       0,
                           0,

                           0,




                                                                                                      0,

                                                                                                      0,
                          00




                                                                                                     00
                        80

                        40




                                                                                           80
                  (-1




                                                                                         (-1

                                                                                                 (-1
                                         Azimuth                                                                   Azimuth
                             Cluster 6 - Azimuth / Elevation                                              Cluster 6 - Azimuth / Roll
              (70, 80]                                                           (140, 160]
                                                                  102                                                                     102
              (50, 60]                                                           (100, 120]
              (30, 40]                                                               (60, 80]
              (10, 20]                                            101                (20, 40]                                             101
Elevation




                                                                        Roll




               (-10, 0]                                                               (-20, 0]
            (-30, -20]                                            100              (-60, -40]                                             100
            (-50, -40]                                                           (-100, -80]
            (-70, -60]                                                         (-140, -120]
                                                                  0                                                                       0
            (-90, -80]                                                         (-180, -160]
                    (-1 160]

                      (-1 20]

                        (-6 0]

                           (-2 ]
                                  0]

                                  0]

                      (10 ]

                      (14 0]
                                  0]




                                                                                                   40 ]
                                                                                                 (-1 20]

                                                                                                   (-6 0]

                                                                                                      (-2 ]
                                                                                                             0]

                                                                                                             0]

                                                                                                 (10 ]

                                                                                                 (14 0]
                                                                                                             0]
                                -40




                                  0




                                                                                                 60




                                                                                                           -40




                                                                                                             0
                              , -8




                               ,4

                               ,8

                               12

                               16




                                                                                                         , -8




                                                                                                          ,4

                                                                                                          ,8

                                                                                                          12

                                                                                                          16
                               0,




                                                                                                          0,
                            , -1




                                                                                             , -1

                                                                                                       , -1
                            ,-




                          (20

                          (60




                                                                                                     (20

                                                                                                     (60
                            0,




                                                                                                       0,
                           0,

                           0,




                                                                                                      0,

                                                                                                      0,
                          00




                                                                                                     00
                        80

                        40




                                                                                           80
                  (-1




                                                                                         (-1

                                                                                                 (-1




                                         Azimuth                                                                   Azimuth


Fig. A7: Camera viewpoint distribution heatmaps (in log-scale) in the DualPM [13]
dataset for the entire dataset and selected clusters.



ground-truth camera azimuth angle and the binned aligned joint distance (which
serves as a proxy for pose complexity, as detailed in Sec. A.2). A key observation
is that our base refinement process (prior to viewpoint augmentation) yields par-
ticularly effective improvements for lateral views (corresponding to an azimuth
of ±90◦ ) relative to the canonical-only baseline, outpacing the gains observed
for frontal or rear perspectives.
    A natural approach to mitigate this performance discrepancy is to leverage
the highly accurate lateral predictions to bootstrap more reliable frontal and rear
training samples. Specifically, we dynamically sample supplementary views based
on the primary camera perspective during training. For a given base viewpoint
categorized broadly as frontal, rear, or lateral we sample N ∈ {1, 2} additional
viewpoints. Crucially, this strategy relies entirely on our predicted camera poses
30                  J. Zadrozny et al.

                              Elevation Distribution                                                         Roll Distribution
          0.030                                                                          0.030
                                                             Normal Fit                                                                 Normal Fit
                                                             Student's t Fit                                                            Student's t Fit
          0.025                                              Data Histogram              0.025                                          Data Histogram

          0.020                                                                          0.020
Density




                                                                               Density
          0.015                                                                          0.015

          0.010                                                                          0.010

          0.005                                                                          0.005

          0.000                                                                          0.000
                   80   60   40    20      0     20     40      60      80                       150   100   50         0          50   100     150
                                  Elevation Angle ( )                                                             Roll Angle ( )


Fig. A8: Parametric fitting of camera pose distributions. Density histograms of
the empirical camera elevation (left) and roll (right) angles from the DualPM dataset,
overlaid with Normal (Gaussian) and Student’s t-distribution fits. The Student’s t-
distribution captures the heavy tails of the empirical data better compared to the
standard Gaussian, motivating its use to robustly sample extreme viewpoints during
our synthetic dataset initialization.



rather than ground-truth annotations. As shown in Tab. 3, our estimated poses
exhibit an average rotation error of only 3.5◦ , making them highly reliable for
this routing. To mildly upsample historically challenging angles, we assign a
higher probability (65%) of generating two supplementary views when the base
view is lateral, compared to a lower probability (35%) when starting from a
frontal or rear view.
    The specific categories of these supplementary viewpoints are drawn from
a conditional probability distribution designed to favor complementary angles.
Namely, we heavily penalize sampling the identical view type again and introduce
a soft bias that encourages lateral base views to sample frontal or rear perspec-
tives. Importantly, this sampling bias is applied gently. While we explicitly favor
synthesizing frontal and rear views from lateral inputs, we strictly maintain a
non-zero probability for all cross-viewpoint combinations (e.g., generating lateral
views from frontal ones, or frontal from frontal). This soft conditioning ensures
that we successfully target the challenging angles without severely distorting the
natural viewpoint distribution of the overall dataset.


C                 Additional implementation details

Mesh fitting and regularization. During the mesh fitting stage, we employ
the Adam optimizer for 200 total steps. The initial learning rate is set to 2 ×
10−2 for the joint rotation and bone scale (if they are enabled) parameters and
1 × 10−3 for the rigid transformation parameters. To ensure stable convergence,
the learning rate for the joint rotations is halved after every 100 steps.
    For synthetic images, the empirical weights for the regularization terms de-
fined in Eq. (3) are set as follows: the angle loss weight λangle = 1 × 10−5 , the
repulsion weight λrep = 1.0, the edge length loss weight λedge = 100, and the
    Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material        31

local volume loss weight λvol = 20. Bone scaling is disabled entirely for synthetic
images, so λscale = 0. Because real-world images contain more instance variabil-
ity and are more noisy, their mesh fitting setup is slightly different. First, we
run the optimizer for 300 total steps. Then, the real-world parameters (shared
by horse, chimpanzee, elephant categories) are λangle = 3 × 10−5 , λrep = 5.0,
λedge = 3000, and the local volume loss stays at λvol = 20. We also use a non-
zero λscale = 0.01 for real-world images. Note the loss terms operate in different
range and these weights generally compensate for that.
    To avoid test-set leakage, these synthetic hyperparameters were determined
via visual inspection of the fit quality and physical realism on a small subset of
the horse training data. These values demonstrated strong generalizability and
were consequently directly carried over to the cow and sheep categories without
further tuning. The real-world mesh fitting parameters were fine-tuned from the
synthetic ones by visual inspection of a couple dozen samples from the three
categories.
Point map predictor training. To stabilize training, we accumulate gradients
over two batches, slightly increase the Adam [15] momentum, apply a weight de-
cay of 0.01, and utilize a sequential learning rate scheduler comprising a linear
warmup (1K steps) followed by cosine annealing. While we maintain the original
base learning rate, we reduce the training duration to 60K steps per refinement
iteration, which helps offset the computational overhead of gradient accumula-
tion. Retraining the baseline DualPM under this stabilized regime yielded only
marginal improvements, confirming these modifications are specifically necessary
for handling noisy, self-supervised targets.
Textures. To synthesize paired 2D-3D data during the iterative refinement pro-
cedure, the meshes must be textured. We use 1-2 manually designed textures
bundled with the canonical meshes for cows, sheep, chimps, and elephants, and
employ 4 textures automatically generated using Text2Tex [4]. Our approach
inherits the feature extractor based on [49] from DualPM, which ensures strong
generalization to appearance. We set the background texture and illumination
sampling using the same set of HDRI environment maps as DualPM.
Synthetic rendering pipeline. We utilize Blender as our primary rendering
engine. Environmental lighting and background the sampled HDRI environment
maps (as in [13]). To texture the articulated meshes, we apply four texture maps
generated using Text2Tex [4] for the horse category (see Fig. A6 for examples
rendered using our pipeline), and rely on two hand-crafted textures for the cows
and one for the sheep.
Iterative refinement and compute. Each refinement iteration of our ap-
proach produces completely independent training datasets; we strictly discard
all synthetic images and paired 2D-3D instances generated in previous stages
    We typically run our refinement process for 4 iterations. Empirical obser-
vations (see Fig. 5) indicate that the first two iterations yield the most crucial
performance gains. The benefit of subsequent iterations is heavily dependent on
the natural deformation complexity of the target category: performance on the
horse category continues to improve up to iteration 7, whereas the cow and sheep
32     J. Zadrozny et al.

categories generally converge after 3 to 4 iterations (when training on synthetic
images).
    Each complete refinement iteration consists of four sequential stages: (1)
pseudo-ground-truth inference using the model from the previous iteration (2−3
hours), (2) Blender rendering of the new synthetic images (∼ 2 hours), (3)
extraction of DINOv2 and Stable Diffusion features for the training images (4−5
hours), and (4) predictor training with gradient accumulation for 60K steps (∼
8−10 hours). This totals approximately 16-20 hours per iteration. Consequently,
a 4-iteration model requires roughly 3 days to train. All reported runtimes were
measured using 4 NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPUs. Note, that the time required for
the first three steps scales with the dataset size. The provided timings correspond
to the ca. 16, 000-sample dataset utilized in our ablations.
                           Bootstrapping Articulated 3D Reconstruction – Supplementary Material                                                                                 33




                                         Canonical + t-Student                                                                          Refinement (w/ reg.)
                                                                                     0.8                                                                                        0.8
              4




                                                                                                         4
                                                                                     0.7                                                                                        0.7
                                                                                     0.6                                                                                        0.6
              3




                                                                                                         3
Joints Dist. Bucket




                                                                                           Joints Dist. Bucket
                                                                                     0.5                                                                                        0.5
                                                                                     0.4                                                                                        0.4
              2




                                                                                                         2
                                                                                     0.3                                                                                        0.3
                                                                                     0.2                                                                                        0.2
              1




                                                                                                         1
                                                                                     0.1                                                                                        0.1
                                                                                     0.0                                                                                        0.0
              0




                                                                                                         0
                           ]

                                  ]
                                        0]

                                                ]
                                                    0]

                                                           0]

                                                                 0]

                                                                          ]

                                                                                 ]




                                                                                                                      ]

                                                                                                                             ]
                                                                                                                                   0]

                                                                                                                                           ]
                                                                                                                                               0]

                                                                                                                                                      0]

                                                                                                                                                            0]

                                                                                                                                                                     ]

                                                                                                                                                                            ]
                       60

                                 20



                                              -40




                                                                       20

                                                                              60




                                                                                                                  60

                                                                                                                            20



                                                                                                                                         -40




                                                                                                                                                                  20

                                                                                                                                                                         60
                                      , -8




                                                          ,4

                                                                ,8




                                                                                                                                 , -8




                                                                                                                                                     ,4

                                                                                                                                                           ,8
                                                    0,




                                                                                                                                               0,
                      , -1

                             , -1




                                                                         1

                                                                                1




                                                                                                                 , -1

                                                                                                                        , -1




                                                                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                  (-2

                                                         (20

                                                               (60




                                                                                                                                             (-2

                                                                                                                                                    (20

                                                                                                                                                          (60
                                             0,




                                                                                                                                        0,
                                                                      0,

                                                                             0,




                                                                                                                                                                 0,

                                                                                                                                                                        0,
                                    00




                                                                                                                               00
                      80

                             40



                                         (-6




                                                                                                                 80

                                                                                                                        40



                                                                                                                                    (-6
                                                                     (10

                                                                           (14




                                                                                                                                                                (10

                                                                                                                                                                      (14
                                  (-1




                                                                                                                             (-1
             (-1

                           (-1




                                                                                                        (-1

                                                    Azimuth                                                           (-1                      Azimuth
                                             Camera mult. (Ours)                                                                          DualPM (GT 3D)
                                                                                     0.8                                                                                        0.8
              4




                                                                                                         4




                                                                                     0.7                                                                                        0.7
                                                                                     0.6                                                                                        0.6
              3




                                                                                                         3
Joints Dist. Bucket




                                                                                           Joints Dist. Bucket




                                                                                     0.5                                                                                        0.5
                                                                                     0.4                                                                                        0.4
              2




                                                                                                         2




                                                                                     0.3                                                                                        0.3
                                                                                     0.2                                                                                        0.2
              1




                                                                                                         1




                                                                                     0.1                                                                                        0.1
                                                                                     0.0                                                                                        0.0
              0




                                                                                                         0
                      (-1 60]

                        (-1 0]

                          (-6 ]
                                      ]
                                    0]

                                    0]

                                    0]


                        (14 ]
                                    0]




                                                                                                                 (-1 60]

                                                                                                                   (-1 0]

                                                                                                                     (-6 ]
                                                                                                                                 ]
                                                                                                                               0]

                                                                                                                               0]

                                                                                                                               0]


                                                                                                                   (14 ]
                                                                                                                               0]
                                     0
                                  -40




                                    0




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                             -40




                                                                                                                               0
                                   2
                                , -8




                                 ,4

                                 ,8

                                 12

                                 16




                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                           , -8




                                                                                                                            ,4

                                                                                                                            ,8

                                                                                                                            12

                                                                                                                            16
                                 0,




                                                                                                                            0,
                              , -1

                              , -1




                                                                                                                         , -1

                                                                                                                         , -1
                             (-2

                            (20

                            (60




                                                                                                                        (-2

                                                                                                                       (20

                                                                                                                       (60
                              0,




                                                                                                                         0,
                             0,

                             0,




                                                                                                                        0,

                                                                                                                        0,
                            00




                                                                                                                       00
                      80

                          40




                                                                                                                 80

                                                                                                                     40
                        (10




                                                                                                                   (10
             (-1




                                                                                                        (-1




                                                    Azimuth                                                                                    Azimuth


Fig. A9: Reconstruction failure rates across viewpoints and pose complexity.
Heatmaps illustrating the fraction of test samples exceeding a 5cm error threshold
(% (mCD>5cm)) across different model variants. The horizontal axis represents the
camera azimuth angle (0◦ denotes frontal, ±90◦ lateral), while the vertical axis denotes
pose complexity (binned aligned joint distance, increasing with Y coordinate). While
the base refinement strategy significantly reduces errors for lateral views, frontal and
rear perspectives remain challenging. Our proposed viewpoint augmentation strategy
effectively bridges this gap by leveraging reliable lateral predictions to bootstrap the
underperforming angles.
