                                         C3Po: Cross-View Cross-Modality Correspondence by
                                                        Pointmap Prediction


                                             Kuan Wei Huang∗              Brandon Li           Bharath Hariharan           Noah Snavely
                                             Cornell University         Cornell University      Cornell University        Cornell University
arXiv:2511.18559v2 [cs.CV] 11 Jan 2026




                                                                                        Abstract
                                                     Geometric models like DUSt3R have shown great advances in understanding the
                                                     geometry of a scene from pairs of photos. However, they fail when the inputs
                                                     are from vastly different viewpoints (e.g., aerial vs. ground) or modalities (e.g.,
                                                     photos vs. abstract drawings) compared to what was observed during training. This
                                                     paper addresses a challenging version of this problem: predicting correspondences
                                                     between ground-level photos and floor plans. Current datasets for joint photo–
                                                     floor plan reasoning are limited, either lacking in varying modalities (VIGOR) or
                                                     lacking in correspondences (WAFFLE). To address these limitations, we introduce
                                                     a new dataset, C3, created by first reconstructing a number of scenes in 3D from
                                                     Internet photo collections via structure-from-motion, then manually registering the
                                                     reconstructions to floor plans gathered from the Internet, from which we can derive
                                                     correspondences between images and floor plans. C3 contains 90K paired floor
                                                     plans and photos across 597 scenes with 153M pixel-level correspondences and 85K
                                                     camera poses. We find that state-of-the-art correspondence models struggle on this
                                                     task. By training on our new data, we can improve on the best performing method by
                                                     34% in RMSE. We also use the predicted correspondences to estimate camera poses
                                                     and evaluate performance using recall metrics. Lastly, we identify open challenges
                                                     in cross-modal geometric reasoning that our dataset aims to help address. Our
                                                     project website is available at: https://c3po-correspondence.github.io/.


                                         1       Introduction
                                         A frequent experience when visiting a tourist site is finding our way around with a map. On the
                                         face of it, this is a very challenging task. The bird’s-eye view offered by the map or floor plan is
                                         completely different from the view we see from the ground. Exacerbating this cross-view challenge
                                         is the fact that the modality is also different: the floor plan is abstract and has none of the visual
                                         features that we see on the ground. Yet, we regularly solve this challenge, perhaps by relying on
                                         correspondences between the two views: for instance, we might map the dome we see above us to
                                         the clear circle on the map (Figure 1, right). Given that we are able to draw these correspondences,
                                         we ask: can we get computer vision models to do the same?
                                         The ability to draw cross-view, cross-modality correspondences between photos and abstract floor
                                         plans also has practical utility. For instance, it can allow robots to localize themselves given just a
                                         map and a few sparse views. These correspondences can also be an added source of information
                                         when solving challenging structure-from-motion (SfM) problems, since they can be used to register
                                         cameras to the floor plan and thus to each other. This may be especially useful in cases where sparse
                                         views with limited overlap lead to multiple, disconnected reconstructions that cannot be registered to
                                         each other, but could be jointly registered to a plan-view image.
                                         Recent advances in computer vision suggest that current state-of-the-art techniques can indeed identify
                                         correspondences even in challenging scenarios. In particular, DUSt3R [1] demonstrated the ability to
                                             ∗
                                                 Corresponding email: kwhuang@cs.cornell.edu

                                         39th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2025) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.
Figure 1: We present C3, a dataset of paired floor plans and photos, annotated with point correspon-
dences and camera poses. It consists of 90K plan-photo pairs, 153M correspondences, and 85K
camera poses across 597 scenes, covering a broad range of scene structures, lighting conditions, and
camera poses. We show photos captured from various views within an example scene, their camera
poses, and color-coded correspondences to the floor plan.


draw correspondences across “nearly opposite” viewpoints. Self-supervised feature representations
like DINO [2] or DIFT [3] have been shown to allow for cross-modality correspondences. Yet these
models have never been tested in scenarios that combine the challenge of viewpoint and modality, a
challenge exemplified in the image-to-floor plan correspondence problem. The reason is the lack of
benchmarking data: there exists no prior dataset that provides ground truth correspondences across
images and floor plans.
In this work, we address this gap and create a first-of-its-kind dataset, C3 (for Cross-View Cross-
Modality Correspondence), of correspondences between floor plans and photos. To address the
complexity of manually annotating correspondences, we propose a novel pipeline that uses SfM point
clouds manually aligned to floor plans to infer individual point correspondences.
We use our dataset to evaluate state-of-the-art correspondence techniques ranging from DUSt3R to
self-supervised features like DINO as well as methods trained explicitly for correspondence [3–7].
We find that existing models struggle to draw these correspondences, with most methods yielding
errors that are more than 10% of the image size. This suggests that in spite of large advances
in reconstruction, current state-of-the-art is not sufficient for solving the problem of cross-view,
cross-modality correspondences.
We improve the state-of-the-art via a method we call cross-view, cross-modality correspondence by
pointmap prediction (C3Po) where we fine-tune DUSt3R on our dataset, yielding a 34% reduction in
error. Yet, we find that errors are much higher than classical correspondence problems. We analyze
the remaining errors and find multiple challenges that are particular to this cross-view, cross-modal
problem: often, ground-level photos do not provide enough context of the overall scene, and this
problem is exacerbated when symmetries in the structure make the problem ambiguous. Handling
this ambiguity is an open problem deserving of future research.
In sum, our contributions are:

      1. We present a dataset consisting of floor plan-photo pairs collected from the Internet, along
         with pixel correspondences for each pair and the camera pose for each photo.
      2. We demonstrate that state-of-the-art correspondence techniques fail to draw accurate corre-
         spondences between images and floor plans.
      3. We adapt DUSt3R’s pointmap prediction to estimate correspondences, outperforming the
         best baseline by 34%.
      4. We show camera pose estimation as a downstream application of our predicted correspon-
         dences and evaluate its performance with recall metrics.


                                                 2
      5. We identify systematic sources of error due to the natural ambiguity in data for future work
         to explore.

2     Related Work
2.1   Cross-view and Cross-modal Datasets

Since C3 is, to our knowledge, the first cross-view, cross-domain correspondence dataset, we identify
the following three categories of prior datasets that are most relevant to our work: datasets with
photos of scenes, floor plans, and cross-viewpoint imagery. Datasets with photos of scenes have been
critical in the development of scene understanding methods [8, 9] and training the visual perception
for embodied agents [10]. However, they lack scene layout images. Floor plans are a compact and
generalizable 2D layout representation of 3D buildings, and prior floor plan datasets have enabled
tasks like layout estimation [11, 12], scene generation [13, 14], and others [15–17]. These prior
datasets, however, are limited to indoor residential buildings. The recent WAFFLE dataset [18]
consists of 20K floor plans covering a wide range of building types and locations, but lacks photos of
the corresponding scenes. Finally, cross-view datasets typically contain satellite and ground-level
images [19] and have historically been utilized for tasks like geo-localization [20]. While the satellite
images provide aerial views, they do not necessarily contain structural information in the abstracted
way that floor plans do. They are also missing the correspondences between the images from the
two viewpoints. Our dataset not only contains floor plan–photo pairs drawn from a broad array of
architectural structures and geographical regions, but also provides 2D correspondences between the
pairs and a camera pose for each photo.

2.2   Pixel Correspondence

Pixel correspondence, the process of finding matching points in different images that represent
the same point in the real world, is a fundamental task in computer vision with a wide range of
applications, including 3D reconstruction [21–23], motion tracking [24–26], and geo-localization
[27–29]. Historical matching methods rely on manually engineered features, like SIFT [30], SURF
[31], and ORB [32]. Newer strategies have shifted towards learning-based methods [33], for their
ability to extract more adaptable features automatically from data. However, these features are local,
limiting their robustness in capturing broader scene context. To address this, dense methods [4, 5]
have been introduced to establish correspondences at a global scale for better performance, especially
in extreme conditions, like large viewpoint changes, textureless areas, and poor lighting, but have
yet to be tested on inputs from different visual modalities. Recently, DUSt3R [1] demonstrated the
ability to learn scene geometry from pairs of photos. At its core, DUSt3R predicts a pointmap which
creates a mapping from 2D image pixels to 3D scene points, and we turn this pointmap prediction
into a correspondence prediction. While we find that DUSt3R alone is not effective at cross-view,
cross-modality matching, we discuss how we adapt it to this task in Section 4.

3     C3: Cross-View, Cross-Modality Correspondence Dataset
Our goal is to create a dataset that consists of paired floor plans and photos and annotated corre-
spondences between them. Two key challenges faced in building such a dataset are (1) finding a
good source of floor plan images, and (2) determining correspondences between floor plans and
corresponding photos. In the following sections, we describe how we address these challenges and
produce our dataset.

3.1   Sourcing Floor Plans

We source our floor plans from Wikimedia Commons, following past work [18]. Wikimedia Com-
mons is an online media repository that hosts freely licensed media content, including images, sound,
and video clips. Data is organized into a hierarchy of categories and subcategories (for instance,
Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Paris → Interior of Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Paris → Plans of Cathé-
drale Notre-Dame de Paris). Images and other files form the leaves of the hierarchy and can belong
to multiple categories. Each file includes metadata, including captions, source, and the categories it
belongs to.


                                                   3
To collect floor plans from Wikimedia Commons, we start by recursively traversing through the Floor
plans category and considering every image file in the subtree. We filter these images in the following
way. We observe that floor plans are typically tagged with category names that mention the structure
or landmark associated with the floor plan, e.g., Angkor Wat, Plans of Guy’s Hospital, and Blenheim
Palace in art. We iterate through the category tags and infer the name of the structure or landmark by
removing prefixes like “Floor plans of”, “Floor plan of”, “Plans of”, “Plans of the” or “Maps of”,
and suffixes like “in art”. We then check if the structure is a scene of interest by checking if it is
an instance of a predefined set of scene categories as in [34] (e.g., “religious building” or “castle”;
the full list is included in the supplemental material). If it is indeed a scene of interest, we manually
inspect the floor plan image to ensure it is a canonical floor plan (not a section plan or drawing too
abstract where scene structure is hard to extract), before adding the floor plan image to our dataset.
This process results in 10,842 floor plans from a total of 6,194 scenes.

3.2     Collecting Corresponding Photos

We use MegaScenes [34] as the primary source of photos because it contains a large number of
in-the-wild photos that are already grouped by scenes. We take the intersection of scenes that are
represented in MegaScenes with the scenes for which we have collected floor plans above. For some
scenes, we also collect additional photos from YFCC100M [35] (for reasons explained in the next
section). With this process, we end up with 1,474 scenes associated with a total of 766K photos and
2,942 floor plans.

3.3     Determining Correspondences

Once we have floor plans and sets of photographs from the same scenes, the next step is to annotate
correspondences between floor plans and photos. However, manually annotating correspondences at
this scale is an infeasible task. Instead, we use a two-step process: 1) automatic SfM reconstruction
of the photo collection corresponding to each scene using COLMAP [22], and 2) manual alignment
of the resulting point clouds with the floor plan for that scene. Given a set of images, COLMAP
estimates a 3D camera pose for each image, as well as a sparse point cloud corresponding to
keypoints in the photo collection. Aligning these point clouds with the floor plan thus directly yields
correspondences between individual photos and the floor plan and is a substantially easier task than
manually annotating correspondences. We describe each step below.

3.3.1    COLMAP Reconstruction from Photo Collections
We use default parameters for feature extraction and sparse reconstruction. For scenes with a
small number of photos, we use exhaustive matching with default parameters. Running exhaustive
matching on scenes with a large number of photos takes a prohibitive amount of time, so we instead
use vocabulary tree matching with 40 nearest neighbors.
For some scenes, COLMAP on MegaScenes photos results in disjoint components and very sparse
reconstructions. As such, we augment our photo collection with YFCC100M [35] for all scenes.
Since YFCC100M photos are geotagged, for each scene, we download all photos that are within a
50-meter radius of that scene’s GPS location (retrieved from Wikimedia Commons). We then use this
augmented set of images to perform COLMAP reconstruction.
Finally, as a post-processing step, we run COLMAP’s model merger on all pairs of reconstructed 3D
components for each scene. This step attempts to merge any components with overlapping cameras or
3D points and results in more unified reconstructions (although many scenes will still have separate
components, e.g., for the interior and an exterior of a building).

3.3.2    Manual Alignment of Point Clouds to Floor Plans
We devised a custom user interface that displays SfM point clouds and floor plans for a given scene
and allows annotators to interactively apply transformations to each scene component’s point cloud to
align it to the floor plan. The interface displays a floor plan and a bird’s-eye view of a point cloud. This
viewpoint simplifies the matching process by limiting the floor plan and point cloud transformations
to only 2D translations, rotation, and scale. Once manually aligned, the transformation parameters
mapping the point cloud to the floor plan, Tpc→fp , are saved in a database as a transformation that


                                                     4
maps points in the point cloud to the floor plan. In this work, we repeat this alignment for the two
largest reconstructed point clouds for all the scenes.
Once we have these alignments, it is fairly straightforward to obtain sparse correspondences between
the floor plan and the corresponding photos. We simply take each reconstructed point X that is
visible in a photo i and project it into both the photo (using COLMAP-estimated camera parameters
Ti ) and the floor plan (using the manually estimated transformation Tpc→fp ), where xi and xfp are
corresponding points:
                                           xfp = Tpc→fp X                                           (1)
                                                xi = Ti X                                           (2)
We can apply a similar transformation to obtain the camera pose of each photo.
This yields our full dataset of floor plans, corresponding photos, correspondences between the two,
and camera poses of the photos, which we report in Section 3.4. Note that there is a drop in number
of scenes, floor plans, and photos from Section 3.2 because not every scene has a reconstruction and
many reconstructions are sparse and thus not alignable. We also manually inspect floor plans and
discard composite and ambiguous ones, where an image contains floor plans of many scenes and
floor plans for multiple floors of a scene, respectively.

3.4   Dataset Statistics

The C3 dataset comprises 90K floor plan-photo image pairs derived from 597 scenes. These scenes
span 648 unique floor plans and include 85K photos. The dataset also includes a camera pose for each
photo and 153M total pixel-level correspondences. The number of correspondences per plan-photo
pair ranges from 1 to 13,262, with an average of 1,711 correspondences per pair.
We split the dataset into train and test sets by scene, ensuring no scene-level overlap between them.
We train on 479 scenes, which consists of 519 unique floor plans, 66K photos (and camera poses),
and 120M correspondences. We test on 118 scenes, which contains 129 unique floor plans, 19K
photos (camera poses), and 33M correspondences.

4     Evaluation on C3
We first detail the correspondence baselines and show that existing baselines from the literature
struggle on the cross-view cross-modality correspondence task in Section 4.1. In Section 4.2, we
share our approach and discuss our results and findings. We show camera pose estimation as a
downstream application of our predicted correspondences in Section 4.3.

4.1   Baseline Performance

Method. We evaluate our dataset with a combination of sparse, semi-dense, and dense matching
algorithms: SuperGlue [7], LoFTR [4], DINOv2 [2], DIFT [3], RoMa [5], and MASt3R [6]. We
also evaluate on DUSt3R [1]. Since our goal is to find dense correspondences between images, we
make adjustments to these methods, detailed below. We start with the matching methods and leave
DUSt3R and MASt3R for last. Since SuperGlue produces sparse correspondences, we perform
nearest neighbor interpolation to create a dense correspondence map. DINOv2 outputs patch-level
features, so we upsample the features to full image resolution using bilinear interpolation and then
compute pixel correspondence with cosine similarity. For LoFTR, DIFT, and RoMa, we can sample
correspondences directly with pixel coordinates. We use LoFTR’s outdoor-ds pre-trained model
and RoMa with default scale_factor and upsample_factor=(512, 512). With DUSt3R, we
input floor plan as the reference image (that is, the image that defines the 3D coordinate frame) along
with a photo. This way, DUSt3R’s pointmap representation maps each photo pixel to a 3D point at
location (x, y, z) in the floor plan’s coordinate frame. To obtain an actual pixel correspondence on the
floor plan, we perform an orthographic projection (x, y, z) → (x, z), i.e., we drop the y-coordinate
because the y-axis represents the up direction with respect to the coordinate frame of the first image
(the floor plan in this case). With MASt3R, we provide the input images in the same order as DUSt3R.
To ensure dense matches, we obtain the pixel correspondences from the prediction head without any
follow-up filtering steps.


                                                   5
              RMSE (↓)                          PCK Comparison                                                            Precision-Recall Curves
                            1.0                                                                         1.0                                               SuperGlue
SuperGlue       0.4050                                                                                                                                    LoFTR
                                                                                                                                                          DIFT
                            0.8                                                                         0.8                                               RoMa
LoFTR           0.2901                                                                                                                                    DUSt3R
                                                                                                                                                          MASt3R
DINOv2          0.5338      0.6                                                                         0.6                                               Ours




                                                                                            Precision
DIFT            0.3036                                                          SuperGlue
                            0.4                                                 LoFTR                   0.4
RoMa            0.3308                                                          DINOv2
                                                                                DIFT
DUSt3R          0.2925      0.2                                                 RoMa                    0.2
                                                                                DUSt3R
MASt3R          0.4616      0.0
                                                                                MASt3R
                                                                                Ours                    0.0
                                  0.0   0.2   0.4      0.6      0.8       1.0         1.2                     0.0   0.2       0.4            0.6    0.8         1.0
Ours            0.1919                              Threshold                                                                       Recall


Figure 2: Quantitative results for C3 test set (floor plan and photo pairs from scenes not used during
training). Left: table of RMSE values (lower is better). Our method, trained on C3 training data,
achieves a significant reduction in error. Middle: Percentage of Correct Keypoints (PCK) as a function
of error threshold. Right: Precision-Recall curves generated by thresholding on predicted confidence
or score for each method.


Results. We report quantitative results in Figure 2. The left table lists RMSE scores for each model.
To standardize the RMSE calculation, we normalize all model outputs to a range of [0, 1] (that is,
the image dimensions are remapped to a unit square). The middle graph shows percent of correct
keypoints (PCK), which measures the proportion of predicted correspondence points that fall within a
certain threshold distance of the ground truth points. In our case, our distance metric is the Euclidean
distance. The right graph displays Precision-Recall (PR) curves for the methods that output a
confidence score associated with the correspondences, and we consider a prediction to be correct if its
Euclidean distance from the ground truth is less than 0.05 units in normalized floor plan coordinates.
We show qualitative comparisons in Figure 3. Unsurprisingly, all correspondence-based methods
exhibit poor performance as they have not been trained on floor plan data. Although MASt3R—a
network built on the DUSt3R model for matching tasks—might be expected to outperform DUSt3R,
it actually shows higher error. One explanation could be that MASt3R is performing correspondence
estimation, while DUSt3R is predicting scene structure and projecting it onto the 2D floor plan which
is meaningfully closer to the solution.


4.2    Cross-View Cross-Modality Correspondence by Pointmap Prediction

While the baseline results were rather poor, we observe promising geometric structures in DUSt3R
outputs; the model only needed to learn the 2D translations, rotation, and scale to align to the floor
plan. We therefore leverage the strong geometric prior from the pre-trained DUSt3R model and
fine-tune on our dataset, with some modifications. First, we split DUSt3R’s Siamese encoders,
which were designed to process two input images with visual overlap. Since our inputs—floor
plans and photos—are from different domains, we reason that each encoder should separately learn
the distributions of each individual domain. We also find we can treat this correspondence task as
a pointmap prediction problem. As explained in Section 4.1, we can set up DUSt3R’s pointmap
representation to map 2D points in the photo to 3D points in the floor plan coordinate frame, then
project back to 2D via an orthographic projection that discards the y- (or up-) coordinate. We also
experiment with discarding the z-coordinate instead, but this empirically leads to slower model
convergence. Finally, we observe model overfitting on floor plans during training. To improve model
generalization, we perform photometric augmentations (color jitter) and geometric augmentations
(cropping and rotation) on the floor plans.
Training Setup. We train our approach for 10 epochs which takes about 3 days with 8×A6000
40GB. We use the same hyperparameters as DUSt3R. We share more details regarding our setup in
the supplementary material.
Results. Quantitatively, our model displays a 34% decrease in RMSE compared to the best performing
baseline. We also observe a stronger PCK and PR performance for our model. Figure 3 shows that
our model predicts the correspondences accurately, sometimes less noisily than the COLMAP
reconstructions. We perform the Wilcoxon signed-rank test, a non-parametric paired test, between
our error and each baseline and find all P-values to be less than 0.05.


                                                                      6
                   1           2                 3                 4                  5



+ Correspondence
Ours Photo
Ground Truth
MASt3R
DUSt3R
RoMa
DIFT
DINOv2
LoFTR




Figure 3: Qualitative results for C3 test set. Each red dot in the images represents a correspondence
point.
                                                 7
                                                         C3 R@
                                                                                           Angular +
    Method                    Angular                             Positional
                                                                                           Positional
                   5◦      10◦      20◦       30◦          5%       10%        20%         30◦ , 20%
    C3Po (ours)   21.86   32.53     44.12    51.35        15.94     27.73      41.21         29.48

Table 1: Camera pose estimation results on the C3 dataset, measured by recall under varying
angular, positional, and both angular and positional thresholds. The positional thresholds represent a
percentage of the floor plan’s diagonal length.



4.3    Camera Pose Estimation

Method. We now explore the task of estimating the 2D camera pose of the ground-view photo in the
floor plan coordinate frame—a challenging “you are here” photo location identification problem. We
first estimate epipolar geometry via correspondences found with our method. To simulate the floor
plan’s orthographic projection, we use a large focal length (107 pixels). Given matched keypoints
between the photo and plan, we compute an essential matrix using OpenCV’s findEssentialMat
function, then decompose the essential matrix into camera rotation and translation. To transform the
camera rotation matrix from the XY plane to the floor plan coordinate frame, which lies on the XZ
plane, we apply a −90◦ rotation about the x-axis. We find that in our case an ambiguity can arise
for photos that observe a near-planar structure (as vertical planes like walls yield points that lie on a
line in the floor plan). Such cases can yield upside-down cameras on the wrong side of the observed
surface. We detect such cases automatically based on the estimated rotation matrix and correct them
by reflecting the camera across the best-fit plane formed by the correspondences. Finally, we estimate
the camera center by computing the epipole in the floor plan image. The epipole in the floor plan
corresponds to the camera location of the ground-view photo.
Results. We evaluate camera poses estimated from correspondences predicted by C3Po on the C3
dataset using a range of angular, positional, and combined angular-positional thresholds, as reported
in Table 1. Positional thresholds are expressed as the Euclidean distance between estimated and
ground-truth camera centers, normalized by the diagonal length of the floor plan.

5     Open Challenges
While our method demonstrates encouraging results, we show two categories of examples where our
model could improve on.

5.1    Challenge 1: Photos with Minimal Context

This case refers to floor plan-photo pairs where the photo lacks contextual information of its global
surroundings. These are examples that would be challenging even for humans to reason about in
terms of the general location of the correspondences on the floor plans or camera pose. For example,
Figure 4 (top row) shows a close-up shot of a door and a window. The second row figure is a photo
of only an artwork. In both instances, our model makes plausible predictions; for example, the door
photo is mapped to one of the doors on the floor plan and is along the exterior wall of the scene.
However, the answer is wrong due to lack of context. Future work could attempt to resolve this
issue by, for instance, predicting distributions of correspondences, rather than regressing to a specific
unimodal answer.

5.2    Challenge 2: Structural Symmetry

This challenge involves scenes with structural symmetry. Although there are subtle cues on the
floor plan that can often help disambiguate scenes that feature symmetries (domes, similar walls or
hallways, etc.), they are difficult to identify from the photos. Figure 4 (third row) shows a photo of a
temple viewed from the left side of the floor plan and the last row shows a photo of a church viewed
from the top left corner. Again, our model predicts plausible correspondence configurations that are


                                                     8
                                   Image +
                    Image                               Ground Truth                 Ours
                               Correspondences

Challenges 1




  ..........................................................................................
Challenges 2




Figure 4: We share two categories of data that our model struggles on. Challenge 1, top two rows, are
cases where the photo provides minimal context clues of where it could be on the floor plan. Challenge
2, bottom two rows, are scenes that exhibit structural symmetry, where multiple correspondence
alignments would seem plausible.


consistent with the scene geometry in both cases, and again, perhaps a more distributional approach
to prediction, e.g., with diffusion models, would be more appropriate in such cases.


6              Conclusion

In this paper, we present C3, the first cross-view, cross-modality correspondence dataset. We first
source floor plans and photos of scenes from the Internet and then determine their correspondences
by running COLMAP followed by carefully aligning the reconstructed point clouds to the floor plans.
We show that existing correspondence methods fail to accurately establish matches between floor
plans and images. We propose to frame matching as a DUSt3R pointmap prediction task, and this
approach outperforms the best performing baseline by 34%. We further showcase the utility of these
correspondences for camera pose estimation as a downstream task. We also highlight structured
failure modes for future research directions.
In addition to the open challenges we observe, our dataset could be used to enable a number of
other cross-modal tasks. For instance: (1) given an image and a floor plan, localize the image on the
plan (i.e., camera-to-plan relative pose), (2) given a floor plan and a camera, generate an image (i.e.,


                                                   9
floor plan-conditioned image generation), and (3) given an image, generate a complete floor plan of
the structure pictured (image-to-floor-plan generation). In general, we hope that having access to
quality data can help spur progress on problems involving jointly reasoning about the kinds of global,
abstracted structure available in a floor plan and the local structure pictured in a photo.
Societal Impacts. Through our dataset and approach, we hope to enable researchers to develop more
accurate and robust methods in areas including 3D vision, image generation, and robotics. We do not
anticipate negative societal concerns.

References
 [1] S. Wang, V. Leroy, Y. Cabon, B. Chidlovskii, and J. Revaud, “Dust3r: Geometric 3d vision
     made easy,” in CVPR, 2024.
 [2] M. Oquab, T. Darcet, T. Moutakanni, H. V. Vo, M. Szafraniec, V. Khalidov, P. Fernandez,
     D. Haziza, F. Massa, A. El-Nouby, R. Howes, P.-Y. Huang, H. Xu, V. Sharma, S.-W. Li,
     W. Galuba, M. Rabbat, M. Assran, N. Ballas, G. Synnaeve, I. Misra, H. Jegou, J. Mairal,
     P. Labatut, A. Joulin, and P. Bojanowski, “Dinov2: Learning robust visual features without
     supervision,” 2023.
 [3] L. Tang, M. Jia, Q. Wang, C. P. Phoo, and B. Hariharan, “Emergent correspondence from image
     diffusion,” in Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
 [4] J. Sun, Z. Shen, Y. Wang, H. Bao, and X. Zhou, “LoFTR: Detector-free local feature matching
     with transformers,” CVPR, 2021.
 [5] J. Edstedt, Q. Sun, G. Bökman, M. Wadenbäck, and M. Felsberg, “Roma: Robust dense feature
     matching,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
     Recognition, pp. 19790–19800, 2024.
 [6] V. Leroy, Y. Cabon, and J. Revaud, “Grounding image matching in 3d with mast3r,” 2024.
 [7] P.-E. Sarlin, D. DeTone, T. Malisiewicz, and A. Rabinovich, “SuperGlue: Learning feature
     matching with graph neural networks,” in CVPR, 2020.
 [8] I. Armeni, S. Sax, A. R. Zamir, and S. Savarese, “Joint 2d-3d-semantic data for indoor scene
     understanding,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01105, 2017.
 [9] A. Chang, A. Dai, T. Funkhouser, M. Halber, M. Niessner, M. Savva, S. Song, A. Zeng, and
     Y. Zhang, “Matterport3d: Learning from rgb-d data in indoor environments,” International
     Conference on 3D Vision (3DV), 2017.
[10] F. Xia, A. R. Zamir, Z. He, A. Sax, J. Malik, and S. Savarese, “Gibson Env: real-world
     perception for embodied agents,” in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018
     IEEE Conference on, IEEE, 2018.
[11] J. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Li, R. Tang, S. Gao, and Z. Zhou, “Structured3d: A large photo-realistic
     dataset for structured 3d modeling,” in Proceedings of The European Conference on Computer
     Vision (ECCV), 2020.
[12] S. Cruz, W. Hutchcroft, Y. Li, N. Khosravan, I. Boyadzhiev, and S. B. Kang, “Zillow indoor
     dataset: Annotated floor plans with 360º panoramas and 3d room layouts,” in Proceedings of the
     IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 2133–2143,
     June 2021.
[13] W. Wu, X.-M. Fu, R. Tang, Y. Wang, Y.-H. Qi, and L. Liu, “Data-driven interior plan generation
     for residential buildings,” ACM Transactions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH Asia), vol. 38, no. 6,
     2019.
[14] C. van Engelenburg, F. Mostafavi, E. Kuhn, Y. Jeon, M. Franzen, M. Standfest, J. van Gemert,
     and S. Khademi, “Msd: A benchmark dataset for floor plan generation of building complexes,”
     2024.


                                                 10
[15] Y. Wu, Y. Wu, G. Gkioxari, and Y. Tian, “Building generalizable agents with a realistic and rich
     3d environment,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.02209, 2018.

[16] M. Vidanapathirana, Q. Wu, Y. Furukawa, A. X. Chang, and M. Savva, “Plan2scene: Converting
     floorplans to 3d scenes,” in IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
     (CVPR), pp. 10733–10742, June 2021.

[17] M. Standfest, M. Franzen, Y. Schroder, L. G. Medina, Y. V. Hernandez, J. H. Buck, Y.-L. Tan,
     M. Niedzwiecka, and R. Colmegna, “Swiss dwellings: A large dataset of apartment models
     including aggregated geolocation-based simulation results covering viewshed, natural light,
     traffic noise, centrality and geometric analysis,” 2022.

[18] K. Ganon, M. Alper, R. Mikulinsky, and H. Averbuch-Elor, “Waffle: Multimodal floorplan
     understanding in the wild,” 2024.

[19] S. Zhu, T. Yang, and C. Chen, “Vigor: Cross-view image geo-localization beyond one-to-
     one retrieval,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
     Recognition, pp. 3640–3649, 2021.

[20] P.-E. Sarlin, D. DeTone, T.-Y. Yang, A. Avetisyan, J. Straub, T. Malisiewicz, S. R. Bulo,
     R. Newcombe, P. Kontschieder, and V. Balntas, “OrienterNet: Visual Localization in 2D Public
     Maps with Neural Matching,” in CVPR, 2023.

[21] S. Agarwal, Y. Furukawa, N. Snavely, I. Simon, B. Curless, S. M. Seitz, and R. Szeliski,
     “Building rome in a day.,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 54, no. 10, 2011.

[22] J. L. Schönberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,” in Conference on
     Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2016.

[23] J. L. Schönberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, and J.-M. Frahm, “Pixelwise view selection for
     unstructured multi-view stereo,” in European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2016.

[24] Z. Teed and J. Deng, “Raft: Recurrent all-pairs field transforms for optical flow,” in European
     Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2020.

[25] A. Dosovitskiy, P. Fischer, E. Ilg, P. Häusser, C. Hazırbaş, V. Golkov, P. v.d. Smagt, D. Cre-
     mers, and T. Brox, “Flownet: Learning optical flow with convolutional networks,” in IEEE
     International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2015.

[26] E. Ilg, N. Mayer, T. Saikia, M. Keuper, A. Dosovitskiy, and T. Brox, “Flownet 2.0: Evolution
     of optical flow estimation with deep networks,” in IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
     Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Jul 2017.

[27] T. Weyand, I. Kostrikov, and J. Philbin, “Planet-photo geolocation with convolutional neural
     networks,” in Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The
     Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VIII 14, pp. 37–55, Springer, 2016.

[28] B. Zhou, L. Liu, A. Oliva, and A. Torralba, “Recognizing city identity via attribute analysis
     of geo-tagged images,” in Computer Vision–ECCV 2014: 13th European Conference, Zurich,
     Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part III 13, pp. 519–534, Springer, 2014.

[29] D. Wilson, X. Zhang, W. Sultani, and S. Wshah, “Visual and object geo-localization: A
     comprehensive survey,” 2023.

[30] D. G. Lowe, “Distinctive image features from scale-invariant keypoints.,” International journal
     of computer vision, vol. 60, 2004.

[31] H. Bay, T. Tuytelaars, and L. Van Gool, “Bay, herbert, tinne tuytelaars, and luc van gool. "surf:
     Speeded up robust features.,” May 2006.

[32] E. Rublee, V. Rabaud, K. Konolige, and G. Bradski, “Orb: An efficient alternative to sift or
     surf.,” in ICCV, pp. 2564–2571, 2011.


                                                 11
[33] D. DeTone, T. Malisiewicz, and A. Rabinovich, “Superpoint: Self-supervised interest point
     detection and description,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
     pattern recognition workshops, pp. 224–236, 2018.
[34] J. Tung, G. Chou, R. Cai, G. Yang, K. Zhang, G. Wetzstein, B. Hariharan, and N. Snavely,
     “Megascenes: Scene-level view synthesis at scale,” in ECCV, 2024.
[35] B. Thomee, D. A. Shamma, G. Friedland, B. Elizalde, K. Ni, D. Poland, D. Borth, and L.-J.
     Li, “YFCC100M: The new data in multimedia research,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 59,
     no. 2, pp. 64–73, 2016.




                                             12
7     Supplemental Material
7.1   Predefined Scene Categories

We list below all categories used to identify our scenes of interest (Section 3.1).

       • amphitheatre                                        • hospital
       • architectural structure                             • house
       • architecture                                        • hotel
       • basilica                                            • library
       • building                                            • mausoleum
       • castle                                              • mosque
       • cathedral                                           • museum
       • chapel                                              • pagoda
       • château                                             • palace
       • church                                              • theatre
       • destroyed building or structure                     • synagogue
       • fortification                                       • temple

7.2   Hyperparameters

Prediction Head                                        DPT
Optimizer                                            AdamW
Base learning rate                                     1e-4
Minimum learning rate                                  1e-6
Weight decay                                           0.05
Adam β                                              (0.9, 0.95)
Batch size                                              48
Epochs                                                  10
Warmup epochs                                          3
Learning rate scheduler                           Cosine decay
Input resolution                                 512 × 512
Image augmentations             For each plan-photo input, we only perform
                           augmentations on the plan: color jitter, random cropping,
                                           and random rotation.
Initialization                                    DUSt3R




                                                  13
7.3   Custom User Interface to Align Point Clouds to Floor Plans

To facilitate the process of aligning point clouds with floor plans, we create a custom user interface
(UI). The UI visualizes the point clouds and floor plans of each scene and enables users to interactively
apply transformations. For each scene, our UI has a dropdown menu(Figure 5-right) listing all
corresponding reconstructions and floor plans. After making a selection, a floor plan and a top-down
view of a point cloud are displayed (Figure 5-top). Users can modify the 2D translations, rotation, and
scale of the floor plan and point cloud until they are satisfied with the alignment (Figure 5-bottom).
The transformation parameters are saved in a database and will be used in Section 3.3.2. However,
aligning the point cloud to the floor plan is often not as straightforward as the example shown in
Figure 5. We implement three additional features in the interface to help with alignment. We provide
a Google Earth link for each scene at the top of the menu bar, which offers a holistic 3D mesh
view of the scene. To help users form a better mental representation of the point cloud geometry,
the bottom-left panel allows them to orbit, zoom, and pan a camera around the point cloud. The
bottom-right corner displays a set of images used to reconstruct the point cloud, which users can
click through to obtain useful information, such as the viewpoint or whether the scene is indoors or
outdoors.




Figure 5: User interface for manual alignment. Top: A sample point cloud and floor plan of a scene
that has yet to be aligned. Bottom: A sample point cloud and floor plan of a scene that is aligned.
Right: A menu bar with functionalities including Google Earth link for the scene, dropdowns to select
floor plans and COLMAP reconstructions, and controls for point cloud and floor plan transformations.




                                                   14
7.4   Qualitative Results with Confidence Scores

We have shown several qualitative results in Figure 3, and in this section, we share additional
insights by analyzing the confidence scores of our model’s correspondence predictions. For reference,
the DUSt3R representation produces a pointmap and confidence score as output for each pixel,
and we discuss in Section 4.2 how we turn pointmaps to correspondences. We find that correct
correspondence predictions by C3Po are generally accompanied by high confidence scores (Figure
6), while incorrect predictions have low confidence scores (Figure 7). Photos from lower confidence
results usually exhibit ambiguity, as in the cases identified in Section 4, whereas the camera pose is
more easily identifiable in higher confidence results. This is further corroborated by the PR curves in
Figure 3-right, which show that C3Po significantly outperforms state-of-the-art models because more
confident correspondence predictions are more likely to be correct.




                                                  15
                                          Confidence         Photo +
          Ours         Ground Truth         Map           Correspondence        Photo




1




2




3




4




5




6




7




Figure 6: Correct correspondence predictions by C3Po are generally accompanied by high confidence
scores.




                                               16
                                          Confidence         Photo +
           Ours        Ground Truth         Map           Correspondence         Photo



8




9




10




11




12




13




14




Figure 7: Incorrect predictions often have low confidence scores, and the photos from lower confi-
dence results usually exhibit ambiguity, like the cases identified in Figure 4.




                                               17
7.5   Validation Set Analysis

We randomly hold out 10% of the train set to use as validation set. We show the RMSE and PR curves
of the validation and test sets below. The PR curves are plotted under the same conditions as Section
4.1, where we consider a prediction to be correct if its Euclidean distance from the ground truth is
less than 0.05 units in normalized floor plan coordinates. We observe a significant drop in RMSE and
an improvement in PR curve on the validation data compared to the test data. More specifically, our
model performs better on plan-photo pairs where the plan is seen during training and the photo is
unseen.

                                                                                    Precision-Recall Curves
                                                         1.0


                                                         0.8


                          RMSE (↓)                       0.6



                                             Precision
      Ours (test)          0.1877
      Ours (validation)    0.0369                        0.4


                                                         0.2
                                                                      Ours - test
                                                                      Ours - validation
                                                         0.0
                                                                0.0          0.2          0.4            0.6   0.8   1.0
                                                                                                Recall

Figure 8: Quantitative results for our model evaluated on the C3 test set and validation set (pairs held
out from the train set). Left: table of RMSE errors (lower is better). Right: Precision-Recall curves
generated by thresholding on predicted confidence or score for each method.




                                                               18
7.6   Additional Qualitative Results

Below, we show additional qualitative results by C3Po, randomly selected from the test set.

                                           Confidence          Photo +
           Ours         Ground Truth         Map            Correspondence        Photo




1




2




3




4




5




6




7




                              Figure 9: Additional qualitative results




                                                19
                              Confidence          Photo +
     Ours   Ground Truth        Map            Correspondence   Photo



8




9




10




11




12




13




14




                Figure 10: Additional qualitative results.




                                   20
